The guiding principle to extend cycle life of unstable SSEs, including NASICON materials, is to prevent direct contact between Li and the SSE. 
These approaches have resulted in varying degrees of improvement in stability. 
In principle, the protective layer between Li metal and the SSE should enable ion transport but prevent electron transport to impede the electrochemical reduction of the SSE.
Surprisingly, electronically-conducting protective layer materials, such as Ge and Al have recently been shown to significantly increase cycle life at moderate current densities.
Here, we demonstrate that thin Cr protection layers between Li and LAGP extend stable cycling times by more than an order of magnitude (from ∼30 h to >1000 h), and we also show that this improved stability is due to altered morphological growth trajectories of the interphase instead of complete prevention of interphase growth. 
We attribute the observed uniform growth and improved chemo-mechanical stability of the interphase region to the ability of the vapor-deposited Cr films to mitigate non-uniformities in ion transport near the interface, which can cause irregular growth and cell failure. 
A variety of electrochemical techniques, in conjunction with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), support these conclusions. 
Beyond demonstrating unprecedented electrochemical stability for the Li/LAGP interface, these results indicate that stable performance may be attained through interface engineering specifically designed to control interphase formation in a variety of unstable materials.
A custom-built ALD system was used to deposit thin films of Al2O3. 
Trimethyl aluminum (Sigma-Aldrich, 97%) and DI water were used as precursors, and nitrogen was used as the carrier gas. The process temperature was 150 degree C, the process pressure was 0.33 Torr, and the base pressure was below 0.06 Torr. 
Bare and Cr-protected Li/LAGP/Li symmetric cells were fabricated using pellets that had been polished on both sides. 
In an argon-filled glove box, lithium disks (Sigma-Aldrich, 99.9%) with area of 0.486 cm2 were cleaned and pressed on either side of the pellets. 
The coin cells were pressed at 500 psi using a crimper. 
All symmetric cells were conditioned by cycling at −2 degree C for 5 min in each direction over 16 h. 
Electrochemical 0.1 mA cm impedance spectra were collected in the range from 3 MHz to 2 Hz before and at different times during cycling using a Bio-Logic SP-200 potentiostat. 
Galvanostatic cycling (and conditioning) was completed using a Bio-Logic VMP3 potentiostat at room temperature.
Pellets polished on both sides and coated with 30 nm Cr or 30 nm Cr on 6 nm Al2O3 were used for open-top cells. 
Bare and Cr-protected Li/LAGP/LFP full cells were fabricated using pellets that had been polished on one side. 
The solid-state LiFePO4 (LFP, MTI Corp.) cathode was made from an acetonitrile (Sigma-Aldrich, 99.8%) slurry containing LFP, polyethylene oxide (PEO, 5 million M.W., Sigma-Aldrich), LiTFSI (Sigma-Aldrich, 99.95%), and Super P carbon powder (MTI). 
PEO and LiTFSI were dissolved in acetonitrile in an 8:1 molar ratio before mixing with the other components. 
The composition of the slurry was 20 wt% PEOLiTFSI, 10 wt% Super P carbon powder, and 70 wt% LFP. 
The slurry was drop-cast onto the unpolished side of the LAGP pellet in the glove box, and a lithium disk was pressed onto the polished (bare or protected) side of the pellet. 
The full cells were galvanostatically cycled at a temperature of 60 degree C with voltage limits of 2.5 V and 4.0 V.
Half-cells with LAGP as the working electrode containing a liquid electrolyte were fabricated to study the electrochemistry of LAGP. 
LAGP slurries were made by mixing unsintered LAGP (70 wt%), Super P carbon powder (20 wt%), and PVDF-HFP (Kynar Flex) (10 wt%) in N-Methyl-2-Pyrrolidone (Sigma-Aldrich, 99.5%). 
The slurries were drop-cast on a copper foil and evenly spread using a doctor blade. 
Half-cells were made in 2032 coin cells using metallic lithium as the counter/reference electrode and 1.0 M LiPF6 in 1:1 ethylene carbonate:diethyl carbonate (Sigma-Aldrich, battery grade) as the electrolyte. 
The cells were pressed and sealed inside an argon-filled glove box. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) and galvanostatic cycling were performed on these cells using a Bio-Logic VMP3 potentiostat at room temperature.
Symmetric and full cells were studied ex situ using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). 
Cross-sectional SEM images were obtained by breaking the LAGP pellet after cycling (whenever Cr was used) or by using the pieces from fractured pellets if fracture occurred during electrochemical cycling (this was common for bare LAGP). 
The samples were exposed to air for less than 20 s to transfer them into the SEM. 
Given the significant changes in morphology due to interphase growth (on the order of tens of microns), we do not expect the short air exposure to affect the interpretation of the SEM data. 
The instrument used was a Zeiss Ultra60 FE-SEM with an accelerating voltage of 5 or 10 kV.
The open-top cells were analyzed using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) to determine the presence of lithium on the surface of the pellets. 
The analyzer was set with a dwell time of 100 ms and a pass energy of 50 eV with a resolution of 0.05 eV. 
The surface of the sample was ﬂooded with slow + ions using the ﬂood gun to compensate for surface electrons and Ar charging. 
The base pressure was 4.5* 10 −8 Torr, and it never exceeded 1.8* 10 −7 Torr during analysis. 
All the samples were transferred from the glove box to the XPS chamber using a vacuum transfer holder that kept the sample sealed without exposure to air during the transfer.
Despite this improved performance, Cr-protected symmetric cells cycled at higher currents were observed to exhibit shorter cycle life. 
Post-mortem cross-sectional SEM of Cr protected cells cycled at −2 degree C for over 120 h revealed filament-like interphase growth 0.3 mA cm as well as interphase formation deep into the bulk of the pellet, which results in chemo-mechanical degradation and fracture (Figure S2). 
This indicates the existence of a current density limit above which the Cr layer no longer enables a uniform and planar reaction front to grow. 
The filament-like growth and the presence of interphase within the bulk of the pellet resembles the growth of Li filaments reported in garnets, and the recent measurements of Li metal formation within the bulk of Li7La3Zr2O12 and Li2S–P2S5.
The interphase formation observed in the electrochemically-cycled sample in Figure 2 gives rise to an important question: is Li being plated/stripped, or is all the current being used for the electrochemical reaction of the SSE? 
It is difficult to determine the amount of Li plating/stripping solely from the electrochemical response in galvanostatic cycling of symmetric cells, and the extended galvanostatic cycling thus does not directly translate into extended Li plating/stripping. 
To address this question, we designed an open-top cell, as depicted in the inset of Figure 3a. 
This cell was operated by applying current in one direction to cause reduction at the deposited Cr layer on the top side of the cell, which was exposed to the argon environment of a glove box. 
Both sides of the LAGP pellet were coated with the Cr layer, but only one side of the pellet was initially in contact with Li. 
With this cell, we can detect reaction products on the “open-top” side of the pellet without the presence of a thick Li foil electrode that obscures the solid-state interface. 
The Cr layer on the top of the pellet behaves as the electrical contact, and a thicker Cu ring is used as an electrical connection.
The electrochemical signatures from galvanostatic experiments with two different open-top cells are presented in Figure 3a. 
The black trace in Figure 3a is from an open-top cell with only a 30 nm Cr layer on top, while the blue trace is from an open-top cell with a bilayer of 30 nm Cr on top of 6 nm Al2O3 deposited by atomic layer deposition (ALD). 
For the cell with only Cr, the cell voltage remained above 0 V during the initial stages of the discharge and gradually fell below 0 V after 0.2 h. 
The XPS data shown in Figures 3b and 3c indicate that Li entirely covered the Cr layer, since the Cr 2p peaks are no longer visible after discharge. 
These data suggest that while there is some electrochemical reaction of the LAGP at higher potentials, there is also some Li metal deposition to cover the Cr layer. 
The cell with the Cr-Al2O3 bilayer was also constructed and tested to examine the effects of the  electronically-insulating Al2O3 layer (which likely converts to a Li conducting LiAlOx phase in contact with Li).
For this bilayer cell, the cell voltage immediately became negative under applied current in Figure 3a, and the voltage showed an initial dip typically associated with a nucleation overpotential.
This behavior suggests that this sample features direct electrochemical deposition of Li metal without significant reaction of the LAGP to form an interphase. 
However, the XPS data shown in Figures 3b and 3c show that Cr 2p peaks are detected after plating Li within this bilayer cell, which likely means that Li did not plate uniformly when the Al2O3 layer was added between Cr and LAGP. 
These results indicate that the initial electrochemical behavior of the interface can be directed through judicious choice of interfacial layers.
Although the Cr-Al2O3 bilayer enabled preferential lithium deposition without interphase formation in the early times of this experiment, long-term cycling still resulted in the reaction of LAGP and the formation of a uniform interphase. 
A density of 0.2 mA cm 6 nm layer of Al2O3 alone at the interface did not result in improved stability (Figure 3d), indicating that the Cr layer was again necessary. 
Figure 3e shows that the interphase formed using the Cr-Al2O3
Additional investigation showed that the significantly increased stability is not due to the total prevention of reacted interphase formation by the Cr layers. 
Two identical symmetric cells with Cr-protected LAGP were constructed and tested under different conditions. 
Figure 2 shows SEM images of the interphase region formed electrochemically (Figures 2a and 2b) and chemically (Figures 2c and 2d). 
The darker contrast of the interphase in the SEM images arises because of the higher electronic conductivity of the interphase and the incorporation of a significant amount of Li, which has a lower atomic number. 
The thickness and morphology of the interphase for both cells is very similar, which is consistent with the impedance evolution discussed in Figure 1f. 
In both cases, the interphase is uniform and planar, with a sharp reaction front separating it from the pristine LAGP. 
First, it is clear that the Cr layer does not prevent the chemical reaction even when no current is applied, which indicates that Li atoms can diffuse through the Cr interlayer and react with the underlying LAGP. 
Second, the uniform morphology of the interphase in Figure 2a is significantly different than the non-uniform interphase that forms under identical electrochemical conditions with unprotected LAGP.
Uniform and planar interphases avoid these stress concentrations and can be stable for much longer times.
Finally, we examined the effects of the Cr interfacial layer on the electrochemistry of full cells. 
The cathode in these cells consisted of LiFePO4 (LFP) active material embedded in a poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO)-based polymer-electrolyte composite which was drop-cast on the top of the LAGP pellet (see Experimental). 
As shown in Figure 4, the Cr interfacial layer at the Li metal interface also extends stability of these full cells, and the full cells provide additional understanding of the behavior of these interfaces. 
Figure 4 shows the cycling behavior of Li/LAGP/LFP cells tested at 60 degree C using a current density of 0.1 mA−2. 
The data from the Cr-protected LAGP cell in Figures 4b and cm 4c show much greater cycling stability than the data from the bare sample in Figure 4a. 
The extended cyclability attained with Cr is again connected to the improved chemo-mechanical stability of the LAGP pellet. 
Figure 4d shows that a planar, uniform interphase was formed on the anode side of a similar sample with no signs of fracture after 500 cycles. 
We believe that failure of these protected cells occurs not due to fracture, but due to delamination of the cathode (as can be seen in Figure 4d).
Another feature evident from Figures 4a and 4b is that the Cr interlayer alters the voltage of the full cell. 
As shown in Figures 4a and 4b,the galvanostatic curves of the Cr-protected LAGP cell consistently show lower charge/discharge voltages than the bare cells by about 0.3 V. 
The average voltage of ∼3.4 V for the bare cell (Figure 4a) is consistent with the use of an LFP cathode and Li plating/stripping at the anode. 
The reduction in cell voltage for the Cr-coated cell is most likely due to the negative electrode reaction being reversible conversion of the LAGP instead of Li plating/stripping. 
To further investigate this possibility, we constructed conventional slurry-based electrodes with LAGP powder and examined their electrochemical behavior within liquid-electrolyte half cells (see Experimental section). 
Cyclic voltammetry and galvanostatic cycling of LAGP working electrodes showed that this material undergoes redox (likely a conversion reaction) between about 0.2 and 0.4 V vs. Li/Li (Figure S3). 
These additional results provide strong evidence that the shift in voltage of the Cr-protected solid-state cell in Figure 4b is due to reversible conversion reaction of the LAGP at the anode. 
Thus, these findings suggest that without the Cr protection layer, Li/LAGP/LFP full cells operate via Li plating/stripping at the anode, but when the Cr layer is added, it promotes the direct electrochemical conversion reaction of the LAGP. 
In the Cr-protected LAGP cells, the Cr layer represents an additional barrier for Li transport, which could frustrate Li plating/stripping and favor electrochemical conversion. 
At higher current densities, filamentary growth of the interphase occurs following a mechanism similar to that reported for bare LAGP.
We hypothesize that, while electron transport can be uniform due to the transport is still restricted due to immetallic Cr protection layer, Li perfect contact, which can lead to preferential localized growth of the interphase. 
Since the interphase is a MIEC reduction of pristine LAGP is favored at the interphase protrusions, where the ion transport distance is shorter. 
It is possible that higher pressures or other strategies to improve contact at the interface could improve stability at higher current densities.
This work shows that metallic protection layers can enable >1000 h of cycling time for NASICON-based lithium metal batteries, and it provides important insights into the mechanisms through which these metallic protection layers operate. 
We demonstrate that engineering the Li-SSE interface with metallic layers enables control over the evolution of the interphase, which is key for the long-term stability of LAGP. 
Cr interlayer films were found to significantly extend the lifetime of symmetric and full cells by promoting uniform interphase growth and delaying fracture at moderate current densities. 
At the same time, the Cr layers promoted reversible electrochemical conversion of the LAGP material instead of Li deposition/stripping. 
Experiments with electron-blocking Cr-Al2O3 bilayers showed initial promotion of Li plating, but long-term stability and interphase growth were similar Cr alone. 
These results are important since they demonstrate the underlying mechanisms that govern the action of metallic protection layers. 
In particular, the ability of the 30 nm Cr layers to allow Li to be transported while also reducing ion transport non-uniformities and improving stability could be beneficial when used with a variety of SSE materials. 
For ultimate stability, however, true electron-blocking layers to entirely prevent interphase formation, or other layers that can significantly slow the growth of the interphase, are seemingly required. 
In either case, the use of metallic layers in conjunction with these future protection materials could be advantageous. 
Thus, we expect that the findings reported here are an important step on the way toward the development of a diverse array of solid-state battery chemistries with long-term stability and high energy.