B(B')O6 octahedra	Nasicon NaZr2(PO4)3	Materials with the general formula AxBB'(PO4)3 consisting of a BB'(PO4)3 framework built up by a corner sharing B(B')O6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra in such a way that each octahedron is surrounded by six tetrahedra and each tetrahedron is connected to four octahedra , crystallise mainly in the Nasicon NaZr2(PO4)3 .
PO4 tetrahedra	Nasicon NaZr2(PO4)3	Materials with the general formula AxBB'(PO4)3 consisting of a BB'(PO4)3 framework built up by a corner sharing B(B')O6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra in such a way that each octahedron is surrounded by six tetrahedra and each tetrahedron is connected to four octahedra , crystallise mainly in the Nasicon NaZr2(PO4)3 .
octahedron	Nasicon NaZr2(PO4)3	Materials with the general formula AxBB'(PO4)3 consisting of a BB'(PO4)3 framework built up by a corner sharing B(B')O6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra in such a way that each octahedron is surrounded by six tetrahedra and each tetrahedron is connected to four octahedra , crystallise mainly in the Nasicon NaZr2(PO4)3 .
size	rotation	The increase of the M1 site size in Na2SnFe(PO4)3 is accompanied by oxygen displacements perpendicular to the c axis which give rise to rotation of the PO4 tetrahedra and leads to a distortion of the [Sn(Fe)x(PO4)3] framework .
size	distortion	The increase of the M1 site size in Na2SnFe(PO4)3 is accompanied by oxygen displacements perpendicular to the c axis which give rise to rotation of the PO4 tetrahedra and leads to a distortion of the [Sn(Fe)x(PO4)3] framework .
oxygen displacements	distortion	The increase of the M1 site size in Na2SnFe(PO4)3 is accompanied by oxygen displacements perpendicular to the c axis which give rise to rotation of the PO4 tetrahedra and leads to a distortion of the [Sn(Fe)x(PO4)3] framework .
M1 sites	powder X-ray diffraction	The localisation , of Na+ within M1 and M2 sites of Na2SnFe(PO4)3 , and Ca2+ in M1 sites of CaSnFe(PO4)3 , has been proved from powder X-ray diffraction data .
M1-O(2) distance	chex parameters	The linear increases of M1-O(2) distance versus A cation ionic radii , in ASnFe(PO4)3 phases , is accompanied with a regular increase of chex parameters .
M1	ion conductivity	Within the Nasicon framework , there are interconnected interstitial sites usually labeled M1 and M2 through which A cation can diffuse , giving rise to a fast ion conductivity .
M2	ion conductivity	Within the Nasicon framework , there are interconnected interstitial sites usually labeled M1 and M2 through which A cation can diffuse , giving rise to a fast ion conductivity .
interstitial sites	ion conductivity	Within the Nasicon framework , there are interconnected interstitial sites usually labeled M1 and M2 through which A cation can diffuse , giving rise to a fast ion conductivity .
crystal structures	X-ray powder diffraction	The crystal structures of ASnFe(PO4)3 phases , obtained by conventional solid state reaction techniques were determined at room temperature from X-ray powder diffraction ( XRD ) using Rietveld analysis .
crystal structures	Rietveld analysis	The crystal structures of ASnFe(PO4)3 phases , obtained by conventional solid state reaction techniques were determined at room temperature from X-ray powder diffraction ( XRD ) using Rietveld analysis .
ASnFe(PO4)3 phases	crystalline	XRD powder data of the three ASnFe(PO4)3 phases indicated that they were highly crystalline with their structure belonging to the rhombohedral Nasicon type .
ASnFe(PO4)3	rhombohedral Nasicon type	XRD powder data of the three ASnFe(PO4)3 phases indicated that they were highly crystalline with their structure belonging to the rhombohedral Nasicon type .
ASnFe(PO4)3	solid state reaction techniques	Syntheses of ASnFe(PO4)3 were carried out using conventional solid state reaction techniques .
cation sites	M1	It should be noticed that within the Nasicon framework , there are four interconnected cation sites , usually labeled M1 ( one per formula unit ) and M2 ( three per formula unit ) which can be represented by the crystallographic [M2]3[M]BB'(PO4)3 formula .
cation sites	M2	It should be noticed that within the Nasicon framework , there are four interconnected cation sites , usually labeled M1 ( one per formula unit ) and M2 ( three per formula unit ) which can be represented by the crystallographic [M2]3[M]BB'(PO4)3 formula .
Nasicon framework	cation sites	It should be noticed that within the Nasicon framework , there are four interconnected cation sites , usually labeled M1 ( one per formula unit ) and M2 ( three per formula unit ) which can be represented by the crystallographic [M2]3[M]BB'(PO4)3 formula .
compounds	NaZr2(PO4)3	In particular , compounds with the NaZr2(PO4)3 type structure ( NZP , NASICON ) containing small extraframework cations ( Li+ , Na+ ) frequently have high ionic conductivity .
compounds	high ionic conductivity	In particular , compounds with the NaZr2(PO4)3 type structure ( NZP , NASICON ) containing small extraframework cations ( Li+ , Na+ ) frequently have high ionic conductivity .
Na+	interactions	In the system Nal+xZr2Six P3 _xo 12 , on the Other hand , the introduction of excess Na ions introduces electrostatic Na+ - Na+ interactions that can lower the activation energy even though transport must be via a Nal site .
Na+	activation energy	In the system Nal+xZr2Six P3 _xo 12 , on the Other hand , the introduction of excess Na ions introduces electrostatic Na+ - Na+ interactions that can lower the activation energy even though transport must be via a Nal site .
larger ion size	interstitial sites	However , with respect to the larger ion size of Na ( compared with zrk+ ) it seems less probable that Na+ occupies these interstitial sites because they are not located in the center of the coordination octahedron ( TABLE Il ) .
rotation	diffusion paths	The rotation also causes the windows along likely diffusion paths to increase to a maximum size , close to the ionic radius of Na+ , near x = 2 .
hexagonal lattice constant	progressive substitution	As previously observed by Hong ( 1 ) , the a hexagonal lattice constant monotonically increases with the progressive substitution of Si for P ions and insertion of Na+ .
interactions	Debye Waller factor	Na+ interactions and thermal motion make all the Na sites average positions with a large Debye Waller factor , and ( 3 ) the network , though distorted and enlarged relative to NaZrP3O12 , remains intact .
Conductivity measurements	0.3 eV	Conductivity measurements in the range 30-350 <nUm> reveal an activation energy of 0.3 eV for Na+ conduction but conductivity values were found to change with temperature of sample preparation .
substitution	P / Si ratio	This substitution allows the P / Si ratio to vary independently of the Na+ concentration but as there is no concomitant substitution of Na+ in the Zr / Sc site ( vide infra ) the Sc substituted NASICONS are stoichiometric .
repulsions	cavities	In earlier structural studies it was shown that Na+ - Na+ repulsions play an important role in how the cavities fill , thereby affecting the resultant conductivity .
substituting	occupying	Indeed , we believe that in substituting for Zr4 + the Sc3 + precludes Na+ from occupying these sites .
bottleneck	hopping	The resulting bottleneck sizes are small for Na+ hopping but it may be suitable for the Li+ cations .
bottleneck	Li+ cations	The resulting bottleneck sizes are small for Na+ hopping but it may be suitable for the Li+ cations .
low zirconium content	Na+	However , the major reason for the low zirconium content is that about 0.3 mole of Na+ was found in the zirconium positions .
Zr sites	Na+ sites	We would suggest that 0.22 Na+ are located in the Zr sites accompanied by some oxygen deficiency to account for under occupancy of the Na+ sites and a higher silicon content .
reheating	incorporation	Regrinding and reheating the mix results in very slow incorporation of the free ZrO2 , probably by replacement of Na+ from the zirconium sites .
Sc3+	Zr4+ sites	It would appear that the stoichiometric compositions observed in the scandium substituted NASlCONs results from the Sc3+ occupying Zr4+ sites and effectively excluding Na+ from doing so .
Replacing Na	the rhombohedral cell	Replacing Na with a large cation caused the dimension of the rhombohedral cell to increase but anomalously the a dimension decreased .
Oxygen	Na atoms	Oxygen 1 is simultaneously bonded to P , MO , and Na atoms and the four atoms are coplanar .
Oxygen	P	Oxygen 1 is simultaneously bonded to P , MO , and Na atoms and the four atoms are coplanar .
[BB'(PO4)3]	conduction channels	Within the [BB'(PO4)3] skeleton , each M1 cavity is situated between two B(B')O6 octahedra along the c axis at the intersection of three conduction channels .
M2 cavities	[O3B(B')O3M1O3B(B')O3O3B(B')O3]	Six M2 cavities with eightfold coordination are located between the [O3B(B')O3M1O3B(B')O3O3B(B')O3] ribbons and surround the M1 cavity .
Al	asymmetric stretching vibrations	In the spectra of aluminum- and chromium containing phosphates Na2Al3/2Ta1/2(PO4)3 and Na2Cr3/2Ta1/2(PO4)3 , the bands of asymmetric stretching vibrations are blue - shifted owing to the smaller sizes of Al and Cr cations .
Al	crystalline side phases	The non-incorporated Al is present in the crystalline side phases ( f.i. AlPO4 ) and in an amorphous fraction ( likely sodium aluminate and sodium aluminum phosphate ) .
ionic radius	volume contraction	The ionic radius of Al3z ( 0.535 A ) is smaller than that of Ti4z ( 0.605 A ) which explains the volume contraction with Al .
Na content	M2 site	The extra Na content , to compensate the Ti substitution by Al , was placed in the M2 site .
dimers	vertices	In the rhombohedral modification ( the structural type NaZr2(PO4)3 ( NZP ) of the mineral kosnarite ) , all dimers are oriented parallel to the single threefold axis and are located at the vertices and the center of an elementary rhombohedron .
compounds	NaZr2(PO4)3	The compounds are classified with the NaZr2(PO4)3 structure type ( NZP , space group R3c ) .
Na1-xCsxZr2P3O12	CsZr2P3O12	The powder XRD data showed that monophases of composition Na1-xCsxZr2P3O12 are isostructural to NaZr2(PO4)3 but beyond x = 0.4 secondary phase of cesium zirconium phosphate ( CsZr2P3O12 ) begins to appear along with NZP .
KZr2(PO4)3	NZP	The family of the mineral kosnarite KZr2(PO4)3 , often called NZP after the first synthesized analog with similar composition NaZr2(PO4)3 , comprises compounds and solid solutions described by the crystal chemical formula (M1)0M2)0{[L2(TO4)3]^p }3O , where { [L2(TO4)3]p }3O is the structure framework ( is the framework charge ) and (M1)0 , (M2)0 are the types of extraframework cationic positions with indication of the number of occupied sites .
KZr2(PO4)3	[L2(TO4)3]p }3O	The family of the mineral kosnarite KZr2(PO4)3 , often called NZP after the first synthesized analog with similar composition NaZr2(PO4)3 , comprises compounds and solid solutions described by the crystal chemical formula (M1)0M2)0{[L2(TO4)3]^p }3O , where { [L2(TO4)3]p }3O is the structure framework ( is the framework charge ) and (M1)0 , (M2)0 are the types of extraframework cationic positions with indication of the number of occupied sites .
sodium zirconium phosphate structural	NZP	The sodium zirconium phosphate structural family NZP , of which NaZr2(PO4)3 is the parent composition , is well known for its ionic conductivity , low thermal expansion , and structural flexibility to accommodate a large number of multivalent ions .
sodium zirconium phosphate structural	ionic conductivity	The sodium zirconium phosphate structural family NZP , of which NaZr2(PO4)3 is the parent composition , is well known for its ionic conductivity , low thermal expansion , and structural flexibility to accommodate a large number of multivalent ions .
X-ray diffraction	phase transition	High pressure X-ray diffraction studies on RbTi2(PO4)3 which is isostructural to NaZr2(PO4)3 showed a subtle reversible phase transition to R3 symmetry around 1.7 GPa that was attributed to distortion of polyhedra and collapse of cavities around Rb cations .
NaZr2(PO4)3	space group R-3c	NaZr2(PO4)3 crystallizes in a rhombohedral structure with space group R-3c .
NZP	NASICON family	NaZr2(PO4)3 ( NZP ) belongs to the broad NASICON family with corner sharing PO4 tetrahedra , ZrO6 octahedra and Na in large interstitial cavities defined by Zr-P network .
NASICON family	ZrO6 octahedra	NaZr2(PO4)3 ( NZP ) belongs to the broad NASICON family with corner sharing PO4 tetrahedra , ZrO6 octahedra and Na in large interstitial cavities defined by Zr-P network .
pressure	NaZr2(PO4)3	Hence the effect of pressure on NaZr2(PO4)3 is found to be primarily due to the size of alkali cation .
NaZr2(PO4)3	thermal expansion	The crystalline compounds of mineral kosnarite KZr2(PO4)3 ( synthetic analog is NaZr2(PO4)3 , known as NZP / NASICON ) type structure are of interest as constructional and functional ceramics due to their stability to the extreme environmental conditions ( high temperature and pressure , aggressive media , radiation ) , near - zero thermal expansion , low thermal conductivity , superionic conductivity , etc .
NaZr2(PO4)3	stability	The crystalline compounds of mineral kosnarite KZr2(PO4)3 ( synthetic analog is NaZr2(PO4)3 , known as NZP / NASICON ) type structure are of interest as constructional and functional ceramics due to their stability to the extreme environmental conditions ( high temperature and pressure , aggressive media , radiation ) , near - zero thermal expansion , low thermal conductivity , superionic conductivity , etc .
NaZr2(PO4)3	thermal conductivity	The crystalline compounds of mineral kosnarite KZr2(PO4)3 ( synthetic analog is NaZr2(PO4)3 , known as NZP / NASICON ) type structure are of interest as constructional and functional ceramics due to their stability to the extreme environmental conditions ( high temperature and pressure , aggressive media , radiation ) , near - zero thermal expansion , low thermal conductivity , superionic conductivity , etc .
NaZr2(PO4)3	superionic conductivity	The crystalline compounds of mineral kosnarite KZr2(PO4)3 ( synthetic analog is NaZr2(PO4)3 , known as NZP / NASICON ) type structure are of interest as constructional and functional ceramics due to their stability to the extreme environmental conditions ( high temperature and pressure , aggressive media , radiation ) , near - zero thermal expansion , low thermal conductivity , superionic conductivity , etc .
atom coordinates	vanadate phosphates	The atom coordinates of LiZr2(PO4)3 and NaZr2(PO4)3 were used as the basic mod els for crystal structure refinement of vanadate phosphates .
NZP	NaZr2(PO4)3	The family of the mineral kosnarite KZr2(PO4)3 , which is often called NZP after the first synthesized isoformula analog NaZr2(PO4)3 ( space group a = 8.8045(3) , c = 22.7581(7) ) , is a classical object of investigation of isomorphism owing to its pronounced tendency of ion substitution in any of crystal lographic sites with retention of the structural motif .
X-ray powder patterns	NaZr2(PO4)3	X-ray powder patterns of NaZr2(AsO4)3 and NaZr2(PO4)3 .
Raman spectra	NaZr2(PO4)3	Raman spectra of NaZr2(PO4)3 and NaZr2(AsO4)3 .
As	the lengths of the O-O tetrahedron edges	When X is As , the lengths of the O-O tetrahedron edges increase , consequently the cell parameters of NaZr2(AsO4)3 are superior to those of NaZr2(PO4)3 .
3.2 g / cm	density	The value of 3.2 g / cm for the density of NaZr2(PO4)3 found from the apparent loss of weight in benzene , corresponds to six formula units in the unit cell ( Qcalc = 3.18 g / cm3 ).
low thermal expansion	topology of bonds	Apparently , the usability of NaTi2(PO4)3 and NaZr2(PO4)3 compounds to build ceramics with very low thermal expansion lies not only in the topology of bonds in the NZP structure , but also in the relative rigidity of the O-M-O bond angles , to prevent the skeleton to distort and become closer packed .
lattice thermal expansion of the high temperature phase	NaTi2(PO4)3	Both phases above and below the transition point are rhombohedral and , as the lattice thermal expansion of the high temperature phase is like those of NaTi2(PO4)3 and NaZr2(PO4)3 , it has been suggested that these three phases are isostructural ( 1 ) , with NZP structure ( 2 ) .
lattice thermal expansion of the high temperature phase	NaZr2(PO4)3	Both phases above and below the transition point are rhombohedral and , as the lattice thermal expansion of the high temperature phase is like those of NaTi2(PO4)3 and NaZr2(PO4)3 , it has been suggested that these three phases are isostructural ( 1 ) , with NZP structure ( 2 ) .
two-fold axes	phosphate groups	In the high temperature form , the two-fold axes [2110] fix the possible rotation of the phosphate groups to such axes , but in the low temperature form , there is no restriction and the rotation of the O21 - O22 edge has a component around the [0001] direction nine times bigger than the component around the [2110] direction ( the only rotation present in the NaTi2(PO4)3 and NaZr2(PO4)3 compounds ) .
NaZr2(PO4)3	crystalline solutions	The NaZr2(PO4)3 type structure ( NZP ) is formed by an extraordinary range of discrete compositions and crystalline solutions ( 1 ) .
deflection	200 <nUm>	( ii ) What is the structural meaning of the deflection at 200 <nUm> , not being present in the isomorphous NaZr2(PO4)3 ( 3 ) neither in the dilatometric curve ? .
rhombohedral and cubic modifications	+ 4	Both rhombohedral and cubic modifications are observed in phosphates containing cations in the oxidation states from + 4 to + 1 .
covalent chemical bonds	the bonds formed by the extraframework cations	This weak effect is due to the fact that the covalent chemical bonds in the framework are far stronger than the bonds formed by the extraframework cations .
NZP structure	high isomorphic capacity	The NZP structure is distinguished by its high isomorphic capacity for different types of cations with different sizes and oxidation numbers : cations , either individually or in combinations , can occupy the framework and extraframework positions .
framework	oxidation states	The basic framework of NZP accepts cations of different sizes and oxidation states to form solid solutions with the overall geometry retained .
higher conductivity	different sizes	It might be expected that compositions with cations of a similar size have a higher conductivity than those which contain cations of very different sizes due to the different Coulombic and steric interactions along the conduction pathway .
higher conductivity	different Coulombic	It might be expected that compositions with cations of a similar size have a higher conductivity than those which contain cations of very different sizes due to the different Coulombic and steric interactions along the conduction pathway .
Tantalum oxide	burning	Tantalum oxide was obtained by burning shavings of metallic tantalum in air at 600 to 700 C .
Tantalum oxide	air	Tantalum oxide was obtained by burning shavings of metallic tantalum in air at 600 to 700 C .
iron	X-ray diffraction	The thus prepared niobium , tantalum , iron , and chromium oxides were identified by X-ray diffraction .
niobium	X-ray diffraction	The thus prepared niobium , tantalum , iron , and chromium oxides were identified by X-ray diffraction .
cubic modifications	TO6 octahedra	A characteristic fragment of the frameworks of the rhombohedral and cubic modifications of [T2(PO4)3] is a dimer composed of two TO6 octahedra linked by three bridge PO4 tetrahedra .
3D framework	sharing terminal oxygen atoms of neighboring dimers	Aggregation of polyhedra into a 3D framework occurs in both cases by sharing terminal oxygen atoms of neighboring dimers .
smaller radii	electron density	In general , cations with smaller radii pull the electron density away from oxygen atoms more effectively , leaving the phosphorus atoms more positively charged .
M+ cation	ZrO6 octahedra	This is due to the fact that in the NZP type framework structure , the M+ cation is located within infinite columns of the ZrO6 octahedra and (P,V)O4 tetrahedra , which are combined through common oxygen atoms and are parallel to axis 3 ( axis of the unit cell ) .
crystal structure	ZrO6 octahedra	Its crystal structure is formed by a framework of nearly regular ZrO6 octahedra combined by sharing oxygen atoms ( Zr-O , 2.06 ) and distorted (P,V)O4 tetrahedra in which the ( P,V ) atoms are surrounded by two pairs of equally distant oxygen atoms ( ( P,V ) - O , 1.53 - 1.61 ) .
crystal structure	(P,V)O4 tetrahedra	Its crystal structure is formed by a framework of nearly regular ZrO6 octahedra combined by sharing oxygen atoms ( Zr-O , 2.06 ) and distorted (P,V)O4 tetrahedra in which the ( P,V ) atoms are surrounded by two pairs of equally distant oxygen atoms ( ( P,V ) - O , 1.53 - 1.61 ) .
Nal - site	octahedron	Between two Zr06 octahedra the Nal - site is located in a destorted octahedron of oxygen atoms .
Na site	wide cage	A second Na site ( Na2 , in Fig1. signed ) is coordinated by a wide cage of 8 oxygen atoms .
cationic sites	oxygen atoms	This is obviously the normal consequence of the presence of a partially occupied site because vacant cationic sites can be equated to negative charges which repulse surrounding oxygen atoms .
activation energy	alkali ions	The low activation energy of alumina may be at least partly due to the fact that all the oxygen atoms neighboring the alkali ions , except those in sites 2c of space group P63 / mmc , are bonded by three aluminum atoms that polarize the O = ion charge density away from the alkali ion .
6Na2(rhomb)	rhombohedral	It is also octahedrally coordinated by 6Na2(rhomb) = 2Na2(mono) + 4Na3(mono) sites located in the same rhombohedral basal plane as the nearest neighbor oxygen atoms .
2Na2(mono)	rhombohedral	It is also octahedrally coordinated by 6Na2(rhomb) = 2Na2(mono) + 4Na3(mono) sites located in the same rhombohedral basal plane as the nearest neighbor oxygen atoms .
sodium atoms	oxygen atoms	The sodium atoms are octahedrally surrounded by oxygen atoms .
groups	PO4 tetrahedra	Such groups are mutually linked in the c direction by PO4 tetrahedra in such a way that empty trigonal prisms of oxygen atoms are formed .
structural fragment	three dimensional infinite channels	Since each 18 fold position adjoins two sixfold positions , the structural fragment of two sodium atoms and four oxygen atoms , multiplied by the symmetry elements , produces three dimensional infinite channels in the crystal .
bond lengths	cation radius	From an analysis of the interatomic distances in NZP phosphates of titanium and alkali metals , it is evident that the framework cation oxygen bond lengths are only weakly affected by the extraframework cation radius .
low concentration	mobile ions	The lower electrical conductivity of the A0.5A'0.5 Ti2(PO4)3 phosphates compared to the classical NASICON ionic conductors is likely due to the low concentration of mobile ions in the interstices and the smaller interstice sizes in the titanium - containing framework than in the zirconium compounds .
lower electrical conductivity	mobile ions	The lower electrical conductivity of the A0.5A'0.5 Ti2(PO4)3 phosphates compared to the classical NASICON ionic conductors is likely due to the low concentration of mobile ions in the interstices and the smaller interstice sizes in the titanium - containing framework than in the zirconium compounds .
crystal structure	X-ray	The crystal structure ofa representative of an extensive group of isomorphous mixed phosphates containing alkali metals and germanium , titanium , zirconium or hafnium , has been determined from three dimensional X-ray data .
crystal structure	zirconium	The crystal structure ofa representative of an extensive group of isomorphous mixed phosphates containing alkali metals and germanium , titanium , zirconium or hafnium , has been determined from three dimensional X-ray data .
A1+x(M,M')2P3O12	solid state reaction	Besides the nasicon type oxides A1+x(M,M')2P3O12 isolated for A = Li , Na ; M = Ti , Zr , Hf and M = Mg , Cr , Ga , In , Yb , titano phosphates Nal+xTi2P3O12 belonging to this structural type , and characterized by a mixed valence of titanium were recently synthesized by solid state reaction , by electrochemical reaction and reaction with organometallic compounds .
A1+x(M,M')2P3O12	electrochemical reaction	Besides the nasicon type oxides A1+x(M,M')2P3O12 isolated for A = Li , Na ; M = Ti , Zr , Hf and M = Mg , Cr , Ga , In , Yb , titano phosphates Nal+xTi2P3O12 belonging to this structural type , and characterized by a mixed valence of titanium were recently synthesized by solid state reaction , by electrochemical reaction and reaction with organometallic compounds .
lattice positions	Na + ions	( 2 ) In both compounds , the lattice parameters of the Li+ exchanged products indicate that the Li + ions occupy different lattice positions than the Na + ions .
electrical conductivity	alkali cation	The electrical conductivity of the A0.5A'0.5Ti2(PO4)3 phosphates is significantly affected by the A and A alkali cation sizes .
ASnFe(PO4)3	solid state reaction techniques	Syntheses of ASnFe(PO4)3 were carried out using conventional solid state reaction techniques .
Nasicon type structure	random distribution	The three materials exhibit the Nasicon type structure with a random distribution of Sn(Fe) within the framework .
Na2SnFe(PO4)3	ribbons	Close examination of the atomic positions and interatomic distances shows that the main differences between both CdSnFe(PO4)3 and ( Na2SnFe(PO4)3 or CaSnFe(PO4)3 ) structures are in the ribbons parallel to the c axis .
anion distances	cationic distribution	In the case of CdSnFe(PO4)3 , XRD data can not distinguish , without difficulty , between the two isoelectronic Cd2+ and Sn4+ cations but analysis of cation and anion distances found after structure determination permits a conclusion about the cationic distribution .
x = 3	low Na+ conduction	The end members , and x = 3 , crystallize in the rhombohedral space group R-c and exhibit low Na+ conduction .
Na-O distances	mobility of Na+	The Na-O distances of 2.522A are rather large in agreement with a possible mobility of Na+ through this framework .
ionic conductivities	small octahedral metals	The ionic conductivities of Na+ are low as is expected in a NASICON framework built up by small octahedral metals .
NASICON framework	octahedral metals	The ionic conductivities of Na+ are low as is expected in a NASICON framework built up by small octahedral metals .
A cations	M1	The charge compensating A cations occupy two types of sites , M1 and M2 ( 1 : 3 multiplicity ) , in interconnected channels formed by corner sharing PO4 tetrahedra and BO6 octahedra .
A cations	M2	The charge compensating A cations occupy two types of sites , M1 and M2 ( 1 : 3 multiplicity ) , in interconnected channels formed by corner sharing PO4 tetrahedra and BO6 octahedra .
M1 sites	six oxygens	M1 sites are surrounded by six oxygens and located at an inversion center and M2 sites are symmetrically distributed around three-fold axis of the structure with ten-fold oxygen coordination .
NASICON structure	tetrahedron	In the NASICON structure each tetrahedron shares oxygens with four octahedra : two in the same M2(PO4)3 unit and two with Other adjacent units .
Na ions	M1 sites	Na ions at the M1 sites are coordinated by a trigonal antiprism of oxygens and at the M2 site has a distorted 8-fold coordination .
Na ions	M2 site	Na ions at the M1 sites are coordinated by a trigonal antiprism of oxygens and at the M2 site has a distorted 8-fold coordination .
thermo mechanical properties	rotations	As the thermo mechanical properties in these materialslye mainly in the rotations of such polyhedra , we have had to look for a more sensible technique able to locate precisely the oxygens .
Neutron diffraction profile	oxygens contribution	To solve the structure of the low temperature form of NaSn2(PO4) 3 , it has been necessary to obtain the Neutron diffraction profile because it depends on the oxygens contribution much more than what the X-ray diffraction profile does .
oxygens	coordination sphere	Schioler ( 7 ) included two more oxygens in the coordination sphere at distances of 3.22 while Tranqui et al.
oxygens	irregular polyhedron	There are eight oxygens at distances of 2.43 to 2.94 forming an irregular polyhedron .
balanced Compensation	cations	Due to the under occupation of the Zr site the charge is not balanced Compensation can be achieved by the addition of more cations or by partial substitution of the oxygens through monovalent anions .
geometrical bottleneck	Na06 octahedron	The geometrical bottleneck for the diffusion is the triangle formed by the oxygens of the Na06 octahedron and the opening of the bottleneck seems to be associated with the increase of the parameter .
Na3Cr2(PO4)3	solution combustion technique	Thermally stable Na3Cr2(PO4)3 nano-crystallites are synthesized through novel solution combustion technique using glycine fuel in three molar ratios .
solution combustion	Na3Cr2(PO4)3 nanocrystallites	By novel solution combustion method Na3Cr2(PO4)3 nanocrystallites are synthesized for the first time in a stable rhombohedral phase .
XRD	rhombohedral phase	Rietveld refinement of room temperature XRD unveils Na3Cr2(PO4)3 structure to be of rhombohedral phase with R3-c space group .
tensile stretch	contraction	A tensile stretch along tae Cr axis is accompanied by a contraction in the basal plane .
Li+ ions	interstitial space	In the second place , the Cr axis for M = Li + is anomalously large , even though the cell volume is small , which indicates that the Li+ ions occupy different positions in the interstitial space .
KZr2(PO4)3	PO4 tetrahedra	The kos narite structure framework KZr2(PO4)3 is composed of vertexsharing isolated PO4 tetrahedra and ZrO6 octahedra .
powder X-ray diffraction	kosnarite structure	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that in the NaZr2(AsO4)x(PO4)3-x system , the crystal phases with the kosnarite structure are formed at 600 <nUm> .
unit cell parameters	vanadium content	The increase in the annealing temperature of solid solutions to 950 <nUm> resulted , according to powder X-ray diffraction data , in appearance of zirconium oxide impurity , shift of refllections of the target phases to greater angles , and decrease in the unit cell parameters of these phases , indicating that the vanadium content in the solid solutions decreases .
NZP phase	LiZr2(VO4)0.2(PO4)2.8	For the composition of 0.2 < x 0.8 , an NZP phase with the composition LiZr2(VO4)0.2(PO4)2.8 and a zirconium oxide impurity were formed .
x-ray measurements	thermal expansion	The principal objective of these high temperature x-ray measurements on NZP is to determine the thermal expansion mechanisms of the phosphorus end member NaZr2P3OI2 and to compare these results with the pre-dictions of Lenain et al.9
silicon	electron micro-probe	The silicon - to - phosphorus ratio was determined by electron micro-probe analysis of the sample .
structural distortion	alkali cation sizes	Correlations are found between the structural distortion , unit cell parameters , and electrical conductivity of the phosphates , on one hand , and the A and A ' alkali cation sizes , on the other .
electrical conductivity	alkali cation sizes	Correlations are found between the structural distortion , unit cell parameters , and electrical conductivity of the phosphates , on one hand , and the A and A ' alkali cation sizes , on the other .
A	alkali metal ion	In the frame - work , AxBy(PO4)3 , A is an alkali metal ion and B is a multivalent metal ion .
B	multivalent metal ion	In the frame - work , AxBy(PO4)3 , A is an alkali metal ion and B is a multivalent metal ion .
NASICON structured materials	AM(XO4)3	The NASICON structured materials with the formula unit of AM(XO4)3 , where A , M and X are alkali metal , transition metal and nonmetal atoms , respectively , can be described as three dimensional polyanionic frameworks of corner sharing MO6 octahedra and XO4 tetrahedra with interconnected channels for the diffusion of alkali ions .
NASICON	alkali metal	The NASICON structured materials with the formula unit of AM(XO4)3 , where A , M and X are alkali metal , transition metal and nonmetal atoms , respectively , can be described as three dimensional polyanionic frameworks of corner sharing MO6 octahedra and XO4 tetrahedra with interconnected channels for the diffusion of alkali ions .
AM(XO4)3	transition metal	The NASICON structured materials with the formula unit of AM(XO4)3 , where A , M and X are alkali metal , transition metal and nonmetal atoms , respectively , can be described as three dimensional polyanionic frameworks of corner sharing MO6 octahedra and XO4 tetrahedra with interconnected channels for the diffusion of alkali ions .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	coprecipitation	Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) phosphates were obtained by coprecipitation route from Na2CO3(I) dissolved in dilute nitric acid solution and aqueous solutions of (ZrOCl28H2O)(II) , (A(NO3)26H2O)(III) ( A = Mg , Ni ) and (NH4)2HPO4(IV) as starting materials ( all solutions were prepared in stoichiometric proportions ) .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	Na2CO3(I)	Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) phosphates were obtained by coprecipitation route from Na2CO3(I) dissolved in dilute nitric acid solution and aqueous solutions of (ZrOCl28H2O)(II) , (A(NO3)26H2O)(III) ( A = Mg , Ni ) and (NH4)2HPO4(IV) as starting materials ( all solutions were prepared in stoichiometric proportions ) .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	(ZrOCl28H2O)(II)	Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) phosphates were obtained by coprecipitation route from Na2CO3(I) dissolved in dilute nitric acid solution and aqueous solutions of (ZrOCl28H2O)(II) , (A(NO3)26H2O)(III) ( A = Mg , Ni ) and (NH4)2HPO4(IV) as starting materials ( all solutions were prepared in stoichiometric proportions ) .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	(A(NO3)26H2O)(III)	Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) phosphates were obtained by coprecipitation route from Na2CO3(I) dissolved in dilute nitric acid solution and aqueous solutions of (ZrOCl28H2O)(II) , (A(NO3)26H2O)(III) ( A = Mg , Ni ) and (NH4)2HPO4(IV) as starting materials ( all solutions were prepared in stoichiometric proportions ) .
Structures	X-ray powder diffraction	Structures of Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) have been refined from X-ray powder diffraction using Rietveld method .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	Mg	Structures of Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) have been refined from X-ray powder diffraction using Rietveld method .
A2+	octahedral sites	A2+ ( A = Mg , Ni ) and Zr4+ cations are statistically distributed in the octahedral sites ( 12c ) of the framework .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	coprecipitation	Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) phosphates were prepared at 750 <nUm> by coprecipitation route .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	broad peaks	Raman spectra of Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) phosphates present broad peaks in favor of the statistical distribution in the sites around PO4 tetrahedra .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	room temperature	Diffraction data of Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) phosphates were collected at room temperature on a Siemens D 5000 diffractometer .
Na3AZr(PO4)3	Mg	Diffraction data of Na3AZr(PO4)3 ( A = Mg , Ni ) phosphates were collected at room temperature on a Siemens D 5000 diffractometer .
Fission products	three dimensional network	Fission products and other actinides substitute for zirconium as essential constituents of the three dimensional network .
charge compensation	Na+ ions	The structure refinement suggests that La , Ce and Se are partially substituted for zirconium with the charge compensation acquired by incorporation of additional Na+ ions .
sodium interstitial	zirconium	In this compound , however , the sodium interstitial is disordered with the zirconium rather than with the conductive sodium ions .
octahedral environment	energy barrier	It is now clear why such is the case , as the displacement of sodium in a very tightly bound octahedral environment by zirconium is expected to occur slowly and with a large energy barrier .
Na3+xCr2CoxPO43 0 x 1	Na2CO3	Na3+xCr2CoxPO43 0 x 1 compounds were prepared from Na2CO3 dissolved in diluted nitric acid solution I and aqueous solutions of CrNO33. 9 H2O II , CoNO33. 6 H2O III , and NH42HPO4 IV .
Na3+xCr2CoxPO43 0 x 1	CrNO33. 9 H2O II	Na3+xCr2CoxPO43 0 x 1 compounds were prepared from Na2CO3 dissolved in diluted nitric acid solution I and aqueous solutions of CrNO33. 9 H2O II , CoNO33. 6 H2O III , and NH42HPO4 IV .
Na2CO3	carbon dioxide	This initial heating is done to decompose Na2CO3 and (NH4)H2PO4 with emission of carbon dioxide , ammonia , and water vapors .
(NH4)H2PO4	ammonia	This initial heating is done to decompose Na2CO3 and (NH4)H2PO4 with emission of carbon dioxide , ammonia , and water vapors .
NaTi2[AsO4]3	Na2CO3	NaTi2[AsO4]3 was then synthesized from a stoichiometric mixture of Na2CO3 , NH4H2AsO4 and TiO2 .
NaTi2[AsO4]3	NH4H2AsO4	NaTi2[AsO4]3 was then synthesized from a stoichiometric mixture of Na2CO3 , NH4H2AsO4 and TiO2 .
Na2CO3	ground	A starting mixture of Fe(NO3)39H2O , Ni(NO3)23H2O , (NH4)2HPO4 , Na2CO3 and MoO3 was mixed in the appropriate proportions to obtain the nominal composition and then ground .
Fe(NO3)39H2O	ground	A starting mixture of Fe(NO3)39H2O , Ni(NO3)23H2O , (NH4)2HPO4 , Na2CO3 and MoO3 was mixed in the appropriate proportions to obtain the nominal composition and then ground .
Ni(NO3)23H2O	ground	A starting mixture of Fe(NO3)39H2O , Ni(NO3)23H2O , (NH4)2HPO4 , Na2CO3 and MoO3 was mixed in the appropriate proportions to obtain the nominal composition and then ground .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	Na2CO3	NaZr2(AsO4)3 arsenate powder was prepared from Na2CO3 dissolved in dilute nitric acid solution (I) and aqueous solutions of ZrOCl2(cid : 7)8H2O(II) and (NH4)H2AsO4(III) in stoichiometric proportions .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	ZrOCl2(cid : 7)8H2O(II)	NaZr2(AsO4)3 arsenate powder was prepared from Na2CO3 dissolved in dilute nitric acid solution (I) and aqueous solutions of ZrOCl2(cid : 7)8H2O(II) and (NH4)H2AsO4(III) in stoichiometric proportions .
stoechiometric mixture	673K	First , a stoechiometric mixture of Na2CO3 , H(NHa)2PO4 and Nb2O5 was heated to 673K in order to eliminate CO2 , NH3 and H20 .
NaTi2(PO4)3	ceramic route	The compound NaTi2(PO4)3 was prepared following a ceramic route using stoichiometric amounts of Na2CO3 , TiO2 and NH4H2PO4 .
Na4-xZr2Si3-xPxO12	solid state reaction	Polycrystalline samples of Na4-xZr2Si3-xPxO12 were prepared for conductivity measurements by solid state reaction of Na2CO3 , Zr acetylacetonate , SiO2 and NH4H2PO4 at 1000 <nUm> .
I+II+III	heated	After the addition of IV in a I+II+III mixture at room temperature and slow evaporation at about 60 C , the resulting powder was heated progressively , with intermitting regrinding , at different temperatures 200 to 800 C in air .
Na3.5Cr1.5Co0.5PO43 x = 0.5	R3c space group	The selected compound Na3.5Cr1.5Co0.5PO43 x = 0.5 crystallizes in the R3c space group with the following hexagonal unit cell dimensions .
Na atoms	M2 sites	Na atoms occupy totally M1 sites and partially M2 sites .
Na1	occupancy factors	Na atoms are located on the same positions as in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 , but the two Na1 and Na2 sites are completely filled by Na atoms in the title compound , whereas their occupancy factors are 0.85(3)(Na1) and 0.72(3)(Na2) in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 .
thermal expansion	rotations	Large displacement of Na atoms contributing to positive thermal expansion is offset by rotations in ZrO6 - PO4 polyhedral network .
Na atoms	M(1)	Na atoms occupy partially M(1) and M(2) sites .
Na atoms	M(2) sites	Na atoms occupy partially M(1) and M(2) sites .
Na atoms	6b positions	From a Patterson map peak at ( 0 , 0 , 0.145 ) , the Na atoms were assigned to the 6b positions at ( 0 , 0 , 0 ) .
Na atoms	Na 1 sites	The Na atoms are located at Na 1 sites in NaZr2P3012 .
Si atoms	P(2) positions	The proposed structure for Na3Zr2Si2PO12 is based on the following three assumptions : ( 1 ) the Si atoms are order in the P(2) positions , ( 2 ) the excess Na atoms are randomly distributed over positions 4e ( 0.5 , 0.95 , 0.25 ) and 8f
Na atoms	positions 4e	The proposed structure for Na3Zr2Si2PO12 is based on the following three assumptions : ( 1 ) the Si atoms are order in the P(2) positions , ( 2 ) the excess Na atoms are randomly distributed over positions 4e ( 0.5 , 0.95 , 0.25 ) and 8f
Polycrystalline sample	Na3.5Cr1.5Co0.5PO43	Polycrystalline sample of Na3.5Cr1.5Co0.5PO43 phosphate has been prepared and characterized by XRD analysis .
X-ray powder diffraction	Na3+xCr2CoxPO43	X-ray powder diffraction study shows the existence of Na3+xCr2CoxPO43 solid solution in the 0 x 0.6 range .
Nasicon family materials	MnABPO43	The three dimensional 3D framework of Nasicon family materials with general formula MnABPO43 permit a large number of substitutions at M , A , and P sites giving rise to a range of composition .
MnABPO43	O3ABO3M1O3ABO3O3ABO3M1O3ABO3	Thus , the network of the MnABPO43 can be considered as made up of infinite ribbons of composition O3ABO3M1O3ABO3O3ABO3M1O3ABO3 connected by PO4 tetrahedra .
Nasicon type materials	Na1+xZr2SixP3O12	Nasicon type materials have been extensively studied after the discovery of sodium superionic conductors of Na1+xZr2SixP3O12 phosphates Goodenough et al. , 1976 These materials were known to show relatively high chemical stability and have been proposed for use in various fields of solid state chemistry : solid electrolytes , electrode materials , low thermal expansion ceramics .
Nasicon type materials	high chemical stability	Nasicon type materials have been extensively studied after the discovery of sodium superionic conductors of Na1+xZr2SixP3O12 phosphates Goodenough et al. , 1976 These materials were known to show relatively high chemical stability and have been proposed for use in various fields of solid state chemistry : solid electrolytes , electrode materials , low thermal expansion ceramics .
Nasicon type materials	solid electrolytes	Nasicon type materials have been extensively studied after the discovery of sodium superionic conductors of Na1+xZr2SixP3O12 phosphates Goodenough et al. , 1976 These materials were known to show relatively high chemical stability and have been proposed for use in various fields of solid state chemistry : solid electrolytes , electrode materials , low thermal expansion ceramics .
zircon structure	ZrO2	When a platinum crucible is used , a phase with the zircon structure and the presumptive composition ZrV4+O4 and ZrO2 is formed .
scale	NASICON phase	In each case the cell parameters , scale , and peak shape of the ZrO2 were refined together with the structural parameters of the NASICON phase .
peak shape	NASICON phase	In each case the cell parameters , scale , and peak shape of the ZrO2 were refined together with the structural parameters of the NASICON phase .
Na3ZrScSiP2O12	monoclinic	The starting model used in each of the refinements was the room temperature rhombohedral structure of Na3ZrScSiP2O12 for the major phase and the monoclinic ( room temperature , single crystal ) structure of ZrO2 for the minor phase .
rhombohedral structure	Na3ZrScSiP2O12	The starting model used in each of the refinements was the room temperature rhombohedral structure of Na3ZrScSiP2O12 for the major phase and the monoclinic ( room temperature , single crystal ) structure of ZrO2 for the minor phase .
positional parameters	NASICON	During the latter stages of the refinements , the positional parameters of the ZrO2 were refined with those of the NASICON fixed .
Electron microprobe analysis	ZrO2	Electron microprobe analysis is effective if the second phase is a stable crystalline one such as ZrO2 or ZrSiO4
Na+ ion	Zr4+ site	For each Na+ ion in a Zr4+ site one ZrO2 remains unreacted .
iodine	high mobility	In case of groundwater contamination , iodine and cesium are believed to be the first radionuclides to reach the biosphere due to their high mobility ; therefore , they have to be efficiently immobilized .
iodine	radionuclides	In case of groundwater contamination , iodine and cesium are believed to be the first radionuclides to reach the biosphere due to their high mobility ; therefore , they have to be efficiently immobilized .
host material	iodine	It was , however , surprising that the host material of the title compound is heavily attacked by the iodine .
cesium	NZP	Principally phase pure cesium containing NZP formulations be prepared with simulated cesium loadings up to 9 wt % , beyond these limit traces of minor secondary phase of cesium zirconium phosphate starts appearing along with the solid solution .
bond distortions	PO4 polyhedra	The bond distortions in ZrO6 and PO4 polyhedra vary linearly with respect to cesium loading but the overall structure of the matrix remains intact .
EDAX spectra	polycrystalline mono phases	The EDAX spectra provide the evidence of cesium in the polycrystalline mono phases , whereas SEM shows the typical morphology of the grains of 0.943 2.5 lm in length .
cesium	NZP structure	The existence of cesium containing NZP structure was determined on the basis of crystal data of solid solution .
cesium	NZP	It was found that up to 9 wt % of cesium could be loaded into NZP formulations without significant changes of the three dimensional framework structure .
SEM	cesium	SEM , TEM , and EDAX analysis provide analytical evidence of cesium in the matrix .
TEM	cesium	SEM , TEM , and EDAX analysis provide analytical evidence of cesium in the matrix .
NZP structure	ZrO6 octahedra	The NZP structure is a three dimensional network of interconnected ZrO6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra , which accommodates cesium ions in large interstitial cavities occupied by sodium ions in the parent structure .
NZP structure	PO4 tetrahedra	The NZP structure is a three dimensional network of interconnected ZrO6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra , which accommodates cesium ions in large interstitial cavities occupied by sodium ions in the parent structure .
conductivity	M(IV) cations	Since the conductivity changes by about 10 orders of magnitude , this can be interpreted on the one hand as a significant impact of the M(IV) cations influencing the bond strength and local coordination sphere of the sodium ions .
M(IV) cations	bond strength	Since the conductivity changes by about 10 orders of magnitude , this can be interpreted on the one hand as a significant impact of the M(IV) cations influencing the bond strength and local coordination sphere of the sodium ions .
Si	symmetry	The introduction of Si in NASICON materials induces a loss of symmetry , i.e. a transition from rhombohedral to monoclinic crystal structure where the sodium ions are more mobile .
Si	rhombohedral	The introduction of Si in NASICON materials induces a loss of symmetry , i.e. a transition from rhombohedral to monoclinic crystal structure where the sodium ions are more mobile .
(Yb,Na)O 6 octahedra	sodium ions	The (Yb,Na)O 6 octahedra are occupied statistlcally by ytterbium and 1 / 9 of the present sodium ions .
P	hexagonal a axis	( b ) Second , upon substitution of the larger Si ion for P and associated insertion of charge compensating sodium ions , the hexagonal a axis increases monotonically .
mid-Na position	interionic repulsions	Therefore , it is reasonable to think that the move of sodium ions into the interstitial mid-Na position results from the increase of the interionic repulsions between Na ( l ) and Na(2) ions .
sodium ions	Na(2) sites	When increasing the sodium concentration , our results clearly indicate that the x charge compensating sodium ions fill the Na(2) sites .
three dimensional framework	Zr06 octahedra	The structure consists of a three dimensional framework of Zr06 octahedra and P Si tetrahedra with the sodium ions occupying intervening cavities .
three dimensional framework	Si tetrahedra	The structure consists of a three dimensional framework of Zr06 octahedra and P Si tetrahedra with the sodium ions occupying intervening cavities .
distribution of the sodium ions	ionic conductivity	The distribution of the sodium ions in these sites and their ability to hop from one cavity to another is the basis for the ionic conductivity .
ability to hop	ionic conductivity	The distribution of the sodium ions in these sites and their ability to hop from one cavity to another is the basis for the ionic conductivity .
Na(2 ) site	Na3Zr2Si2PO12	As a result , we may have captured in progress a redistribution of the sodium ions , involving a splitting apart of the Na(2 ) site , which is more completely realized in Na3Zr2Si2PO12 .
sixfold position	sodium ions	Each sixfold position occupied by a sodium ion of the second kind is surrounded by six 18 fold positions occupied by sodium ions of the first kind ; these positions are situated at the vertices of a trigonal anti prism , but the actual movement of the sodium ions takes place not along a straight line but as it were along the sand glass shape formed .
Na3Sc2 (PO4)3	unit cell volume	The first phase transformation , associated with a redistribution of the sodium ions , for Na3Sc2 (PO4)3 crystals is characterized by a decrease in the unit cell volume , that is , by an increase in the density of the crystals from 2.81 g / cm3 ( 27<nUm> ) for the monoclinic modification to 2.88 g / cm 3 ( 65 <nUm> ) for the rhombohedra 1 modification .
sodium ions	18 fold crystallographic position	NaZr2(PO4)3 crystals , which have the same structure as Na3Sc2(PO4)3 , do not show the properties of the super ion state , but the introduction of additional sodium ions in the 18 fold crystallographic position , including them in the overall system of sodium ions determining .
sodium ions	motion	However , it should be noted that in the rhombohedral structure , the sodium ions in Type l cavities have an almost isotropic motion while those in Type Il cavities have a highly anisotropic vibrational motion .
conductivity	monoclinic phases	This may account for the larger room temperature conductivity of the monoclinic phases relative to the rhombohedral ones even though they contain the same number of sodium ions .
mid-Na position	interionic repulsions	Therefore , it is reasonable to think that the move of sodium ions into the interstitial mid-Na position results from the increase of the interionic repulsions between Na(1) and Na(2) ions .
PO4 tetrahedra	sodium ions	This is in agreement with a description in terms of a lattice of PO4 tetrahedra in which scandium and sodium ions occupy only vacant cavities between tetrahedra but do not contribute to the structural modifications .
sodium ions	Na(2) sites	( iv ) Reduced occupancy of the Na(l) site due to a transfer of part of sodium ions into Na(2) sites .
bond distances	oxides	The bond distances Zr , P , Na are in agreement with their corresponding values for respective oxides .
ionic radius	ionic conductivity	For values of reff far from 0.72 ~ 0.1 ~ ( i.e. the ionic radius of Zr ) , the ionic conductivity decreases exponentially .
Na	b	The Na , Zr , P and O atoms occupy Wyckoff b , c , e and f sites respectively .
Zr	c	The Na , Zr , P and O atoms occupy Wyckoff b , c , e and f sites respectively .
trivalent Sc	Na per formula unit	The ionic radius of Sc of 0.745 is close to the ionic radius of Zr and the presence of the trivalent Sc leads to a high amount of Na per formula unit .
Na1.4M1.6In0.4(PO4)3	XRD	Na1.4M1.6In0.4(PO4)3 ( M = Ti , Hf , Zr ) were single phase by XRD .
25-300 <nUm>	activation energies	Impedance data obtained on pressed sintered pellets over the range 25-300 <nUm> showed that bulk ionic conductivities increased and activation energies decreased in the sequence Ti , Sn , Hf , Zr .
Zr	higher conductivities	M = Hf and Zr samples have higher conductivities and lower activation energies with high Na mobility at room temperature .
M = Hf	higher conductivities	M = Hf and Zr samples have higher conductivities and lower activation energies with high Na mobility at room temperature .
Zr	lower activation energies	M = Hf and Zr samples have higher conductivities and lower activation energies with high Na mobility at room temperature .
room temperature	high Na mobility	For M = Hf , Zr , only a single signal could be resolved at room temperature , which splits into two signals on cooling to -50 <nUm> , indicating high Na mobility at room temperature .
c parameters	ionic radii	The unit cell a and c parameters of Na1.4M1.6In0.4(PO4)3 : M = Ti , Sn , Hf , Zr increase in the sequence Ti < Sn < Hf < Zr , consistent with the variation in the ionic radii of M .
volume	Zr	The increase in volume is 2.6 % for Ti , 2.9 % for Sn , 1 % for Hf , and 0.5 % for Zr .
volume	Hf	The increase in volume is 2.6 % for Ti , 2.9 % for Sn , 1 % for Hf , and 0.5 % for Zr .
Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3	heating temperatures	The synthesis of Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3 ( M = Ge , Sn , Ti , Hf , Zr ) samples has been optimized by the choice of heating temperatures , rates and times .
Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3	rates	The synthesis of Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3 ( M = Ge , Sn , Ti , Hf , Zr ) samples has been optimized by the choice of heating temperatures , rates and times .
Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3	times	The synthesis of Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3 ( M = Ge , Sn , Ti , Hf , Zr ) samples has been optimized by the choice of heating temperatures , rates and times .
Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3	Zr	The synthesis of Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3 ( M = Ge , Sn , Ti , Hf , Zr ) samples has been optimized by the choice of heating temperatures , rates and times .
NASICON compounds	polycrystalline powders	Nominal Na1.4Al0.4M1.6(PO4)3 ( M = Ge , Sn , Ti , Hf , Zr ) NASICON compounds have been prepared as polycrystalline powders .
M = Ti , Hf , Zr	R3-c	Rietveld analysis of X-ray and neutron diffraction patterns showed that M = Ge and Sn samples crystallize in the R3- space group ( s.g. ) and that M = Ti , Hf , Zr compositions crystallize in the R3-c s.g .
R3- symmetry	M = Ge and Sn	The main NASICON phase have R3- symmetry for M = Ge and Sn and R3-c symmetry for M = Ti , Hf , Zr .
vanadate phosphate	ZnO	In some photomicrographs ( Fig. 1 ) , one can see ZrO2 grains that are brighter than the major mate rial ; this attests to substitution of Zn for minor amounts of Zr in the vanadate phosphate structure due to the use of ZnO additive .
The number and the shape of cavities	Zr	The number and the shape of cavities arising in the framework are the most important consequences of different spatial arrangements of Zr and ( P,V ) polyhedra in the monoclinic and rhombohedral frameworks .
residual electron density peaks	Zr	However , difference Fourier maps showed 6 quite high residual electron density peaks in the vicinity of the Zr = site , always three are symmetry related .
interstitial sites	occupancy	If Zr " + occupies the interstitial sites at room temperature , an increase of the regular Zr occupancy has to be expected at high temperature .
O1 oxygen	P-Ol-Zr axis	The O1 oxygen ( coordinated to one P and one Zr ) has maximum vibrations in the plane perpendicular to the P-Ol-Zr axis , whereas the O2 oxygen has maximum vibration in the direction perpendicular to the plane containing the P-O2 , Zr-O2 , and Nal-O2 bonds .
O2 oxygen	Nal-O2 bonds	The O1 oxygen ( coordinated to one P and one Zr ) has maximum vibrations in the plane perpendicular to the P-Ol-Zr axis , whereas the O2 oxygen has maximum vibration in the direction perpendicular to the plane containing the P-O2 , Zr-O2 , and Nal-O2 bonds .
diffusion path	joint probability density function	Kohler et al. ( Il , 17 ) examined the diffusion path in the high temperature phase for a Zr defective single crystal , Na3.lZrl.78Pi.76 Sil.24012 , using the results of joint probability density function ( p.d.f . )
X-ray diffraction profiles	structural parameters	The first attempts to solve the structure from X-ray diffraction profiles at room temperature , using the structural parameters of the analogous compounds of Ti and Zr as a model , were fruitless .
temperature	M-O bonds	The derived distortion , D , in the high temperature form of the Sn material decreases with the temperature in the same way as in the Ti and the Zr materials , but the values do not interpolate according to the way the M-O bonds do .
 M = Ti and Zr	space group R3c	For M = Ti and Zr the structure shows the space group R3c , whereas for M = Sn the space group is R3 .
radius	parameters	However , it can be appreciated a value of a for Sn closer to that for Ti than for Zr ; this would appear rather unexpected in view that the proximity between the radius of Sn and Zr which should lead closer parameters .
hexagonal unit cell parameters	NaM2(PO4)3	J.L. Rodrigo et al. calculated the hexagonal unit cell parameters for NaM2(PO4)3 , with M = Ti , Sn , Zr , at room temperature , by least squares fitting .
stretching	Zr	A slight stretching was also found for the Zr , which is partly compensated by shrinkage and rotation of the ( Si tetrahedra .
Na4MgFe(PO4)3	P	The composition of the synthesized ternary orthophosphate Na4MgFe(PO4)3 was determined by elemental analysis ( found : Na , 20.17 wt % ( calculated , 20.12 wt % ) ; Mg , 5.28 wt % ( 5.32 wt % ) ; Fe , 12.28 wt % ( 12.22 wt % ) ; P , 20.41 wt % ( 20.33 wt % ) .
Na4MgFe(PO4)3	Fe	The composition of the synthesized ternary orthophosphate Na4MgFe(PO4)3 was determined by elemental analysis ( found : Na , 20.17 wt % ( calculated , 20.12 wt % ) ; Mg , 5.28 wt % ( 5.32 wt % ) ; Fe , 12.28 wt % ( 12.22 wt % ) ; P , 20.41 wt % ( 20.33 wt % ) .
activation energy	the central ion of the tetrahedra	In addition , the positive impact of the substitution of P with Si is highlighted again ( open symbols ) and shows that the activation energy can be significantly reduced by changing the central ion of the tetrahedra .
conductivity	M cations	The substitution of P with Si assures an increase of the conductivity until a maximum is reached depending on the M cations involved .
Ea 	partial substitution of P with Si	It is interesting to note once again that the compositions with the lowest Ea and largest area T1 are those with partial substitution of P with Si .
conductivity	the substitution of P with Si	The total conductivity increases with the substitution of P with Si and the conductivity values for 0.1 x 0.5 are in the same range .
Substituting P with Si	conductivity	Substituting P with Si in the ion - conductive Na3Sc2(PO4)3 leads to Na(3.4)Sc2(SiO4)(0.4)(PO4)(2.6) with very high sodium ion conductivity of - = 6.9 x 10(-4)S cm(-1) at 25 <nUm> .
electrical properties	replacing P with Si	The electrical properties of these materials are of considerable interest as well , since by replacing P with Si
crystalline phases	P	The nature of the crystalline phases in the products was shown to depend upon the ratio of P to As in the starting materials .
pure	NTP structure	as prepared samples , a pure single phase with the NTP structure was obtained at ratios of P .
conductivity	substitution of As for P	The conductivity increased and the activation energy decreased with the substitution of As for P .
activation energy	substitution of As for P	The conductivity increased and the activation energy decreased with the substitution of As for P .
Nasicon type structure	O3ZrO3M1O3ZrO3	The observed variations can be explained in the context of the Nasicon type structure which can be considered as built of ( O3ZrO3M1O3ZrO3 ) units connected by XO4 tetrahedra ( X = As , P ) in three dimensions .
phase transition	NaSn2(PO4)3	The phase transition in NaSn2(PO4)3 occurs with relatively little change inside the Na , Sn and P polyhedra , the main change lies outside .
phase transition	P	The phase transition in NaSn2(PO4)3 occurs with relatively little change inside the Na , Sn and P polyhedra , the main change lies outside .
oxidation states	PO4 tetrahedra	A large number of new compounds have been isolated and characterized in the system of M = Mo , P , O ( M = metal cation ) containing MO in oxidation states less than + 6 , indicating the great ability of PO4 tetrahedra to form various frameworks with MoO6 octahedra .
O2	P	However , O2 is only bonded to P and MO atoms .
angles e1 and e2	temperature	In the tetrahedron PO4 both angles e1 and e2 increase with the temperature , e2 increases faster than e1 and this makes the angle z ( projection along the a direction of the oxygen O1k , O21 and P ) to increase with the temperature getting closer to 90 <nUm> .
angles e1 and e2	angle z	In the tetrahedron PO4 both angles e1 and e2 increase with the temperature , e2 increases faster than e1 and this makes the angle z ( projection along the a direction of the oxygen O1k , O21 and P ) to increase with the temperature getting closer to 90 <nUm> .
temperature	angle z	In the tetrahedron PO4 both angles e1 and e2 increase with the temperature , e2 increases faster than e1 and this makes the angle z ( projection along the a direction of the oxygen O1k , O21 and P ) to increase with the temperature getting closer to 90 <nUm> .
tetrahedron PO4	angles e1 and e2	In the tetrahedron PO4 both angles e1 and e2 increase with the temperature , e2 increases faster than e1 and this makes the angle z ( projection along the a direction of the oxygen O1k , O21 and P ) to increase with the temperature getting closer to 90 <nUm> .
Na	NaZr2P3O12	The original Na super ionic conductors NASICON materials were solid solutions derived from NaZr2P3O12 by partial replacement of P by Si with extra Na to balance the charges .
NaZr2P3O12	P	The original Na super ionic conductors NASICON materials were solid solutions derived from NaZr2P3O12 by partial replacement of P by Si with extra Na to balance the charges .
NASICON materials	solid solutions	The original Na super ionic conductors NASICON materials were solid solutions derived from NaZr2P3O12 by partial replacement of P by Si with extra Na to balance the charges .
Na vacancies	activation energy	Substitution of P for Si and the introduction of Na vacancies reduces the activation energy only slightly ;
the ( Si , P ) sites	phosphor	ICP ( Inductive Coupled Plasma ) and microprobe chemical analyses were done to check for any occupation of the ( Si , P ) sites by phosphor .
ICP	occupation of the ( Si , P ) sites by phosphor	ICP ( Inductive Coupled Plasma ) and microprobe chemical analyses were done to check for any occupation of the ( Si , P ) sites by phosphor .
bond lengths	room temperature	The bond lengths ( ( Si , P ) O(1) 1.619(2) and ( Si , P ) O(2) 1.621(2) ) obtained from the room temperature data set confirm that the pure Si end phase of the NASICON system has been investigated vol.18 , No.5 NASICON 591 .
Fe1 site	Fe	The bond valence sums also confirm that the Na1 and Na2 sites are filled by Na ( 0.98 1.19 ) , and that the Fe1 site contains an equal amount of Fe and Fe ( 2.54 ) .
Fe1 site	Fe ( 2.54 )	The bond valence sums also confirm that the Na1 and Na2 sites are filled by Na ( 0.98 1.19 ) , and that the Fe1 site contains an equal amount of Fe and Fe ( 2.54 ) .
Na1 and Na2 sites	Na ( 0.98 1.19 )	The bond valence sums also confirm that the Na1 and Na2 sites are filled by Na ( 0.98 1.19 ) , and that the Fe1 site contains an equal amount of Fe and Fe ( 2.54 ) .
Na - content	NASICON type phosphate	However , the amount of Na in the title compound reaches 4 atoms per formula unit , and is higher than the Na - content of any other known NASICON type phosphate .
Na	Na2Fe2P3O9N	The room temperature mobility of Na in Na2Fe2P3O9N is poor .
room temperature	mobility	The room temperature mobility of Na in Na2Fe2P3O9N is poor .
cubic nitridophosphate	Na2Fe2P3O9N	The 2 : 2 cubic nitridophosphate Na2Fe2P3O9N can effectively serve as a Li - ion battery at room temperature at voltages above 3 V ( vs Li+ / Li ) after Li - ion exchange with the theoretical capacity of this compound ( 144 mAh / g ) mostly realized , though higher temperatures ( 300 <nUm> ) are necessary to effectively remove Na ions from the framework during the initial ion exchange process due to the low room temperature mobility of Na in this compound .
Na2Fe2P3O9N	Li - ion battery	The 2 : 2 cubic nitridophosphate Na2Fe2P3O9N can effectively serve as a Li - ion battery at room temperature at voltages above 3 V ( vs Li+ / Li ) after Li - ion exchange with the theoretical capacity of this compound ( 144 mAh / g ) mostly realized , though higher temperatures ( 300 <nUm> ) are necessary to effectively remove Na ions from the framework during the initial ion exchange process due to the low room temperature mobility of Na in this compound .
Na2Fe2P3O9N	room temperature	The 2 : 2 cubic nitridophosphate Na2Fe2P3O9N can effectively serve as a Li - ion battery at room temperature at voltages above 3 V ( vs Li+ / Li ) after Li - ion exchange with the theoretical capacity of this compound ( 144 mAh / g ) mostly realized , though higher temperatures ( 300 <nUm> ) are necessary to effectively remove Na ions from the framework during the initial ion exchange process due to the low room temperature mobility of Na in this compound .
Na2Fe2P3O9N	voltages above 3 V	The 2 : 2 cubic nitridophosphate Na2Fe2P3O9N can effectively serve as a Li - ion battery at room temperature at voltages above 3 V ( vs Li+ / Li ) after Li - ion exchange with the theoretical capacity of this compound ( 144 mAh / g ) mostly realized , though higher temperatures ( 300 <nUm> ) are necessary to effectively remove Na ions from the framework during the initial ion exchange process due to the low room temperature mobility of Na in this compound .
mobility	Na	The large difference in mobility between Na and Li in this Fecontaining framework is correctly predicted by bond valence sum ( BVS ) maps , which give a threshold of more than 0.5 valence units ( v.u . )
mobility	Li	The large difference in mobility between Na and Li in this Fecontaining framework is correctly predicted by bond valence sum ( BVS ) maps , which give a threshold of more than 0.5 valence units ( v.u . )
Na2Fe2P3O9N	Na ions	In contrast to Na2Fe2P3O9N ( which requires elevated temperatures of almost 300 <nUm> for the complete removal of Na ions ) , the essentially complete removal of Na could be accomplished at room temperature in Na3TiP3O9N , indicating a large enhancement in Na - ion mobility relative to Na2Fe2P3O9N.26 The robustness of the Na3TiP3O9N lattice during this process of chemical desodiation is demonstrated by a comparison of the powder XRD patterns of Na3TiP3O9N , Na2.5TiP3O9N , and Na2TiP3O9N .
Na	Na3TiP3O9N	In contrast to Na2Fe2P3O9N ( which requires elevated temperatures of almost 300 <nUm> for the complete removal of Na ions ) , the essentially complete removal of Na could be accomplished at room temperature in Na3TiP3O9N , indicating a large enhancement in Na - ion mobility relative to Na2Fe2P3O9N.26 The robustness of the Na3TiP3O9N lattice during this process of chemical desodiation is demonstrated by a comparison of the powder XRD patterns of Na3TiP3O9N , Na2.5TiP3O9N , and Na2TiP3O9N .
Na	Na2TiP3O9N	In contrast to Na2Fe2P3O9N ( which requires elevated temperatures of almost 300 <nUm> for the complete removal of Na ions ) , the essentially complete removal of Na could be accomplished at room temperature in Na3TiP3O9N , indicating a large enhancement in Na - ion mobility relative to Na2Fe2P3O9N.26 The robustness of the Na3TiP3O9N lattice during this process of chemical desodiation is demonstrated by a comparison of the powder XRD patterns of Na3TiP3O9N , Na2.5TiP3O9N , and Na2TiP3O9N .
Na	Na2.5TiP3O9N	In contrast to Na2Fe2P3O9N ( which requires elevated temperatures of almost 300 <nUm> for the complete removal of Na ions ) , the essentially complete removal of Na could be accomplished at room temperature in Na3TiP3O9N , indicating a large enhancement in Na - ion mobility relative to Na2Fe2P3O9N.26 The robustness of the Na3TiP3O9N lattice during this process of chemical desodiation is demonstrated by a comparison of the powder XRD patterns of Na3TiP3O9N , Na2.5TiP3O9N , and Na2TiP3O9N .
Na ions	mobility	In contrast to Na2Fe2P3O9N ( which requires elevated temperatures of almost 300 <nUm> for the complete removal of Na ions ) , the essentially complete removal of Na could be accomplished at room temperature in Na3TiP3O9N , indicating a large enhancement in Na - ion mobility relative to Na2Fe2P3O9N.26 The robustness of the Na3TiP3O9N lattice during this process of chemical desodiation is demonstrated by a comparison of the powder XRD patterns of Na3TiP3O9N , Na2.5TiP3O9N , and Na2TiP3O9N .
robustness	lattice	In contrast to Na2Fe2P3O9N ( which requires elevated temperatures of almost 300 <nUm> for the complete removal of Na ions ) , the essentially complete removal of Na could be accomplished at room temperature in Na3TiP3O9N , indicating a large enhancement in Na - ion mobility relative to Na2Fe2P3O9N.26 The robustness of the Na3TiP3O9N lattice during this process of chemical desodiation is demonstrated by a comparison of the powder XRD patterns of Na3TiP3O9N , Na2.5TiP3O9N , and Na2TiP3O9N .
charge carriers	composition	Optimal amount of charge carriers depending on the composition ( around 3.3 mol of Na per formula unit )
size	alkali cations	Anisotropy in thermal expansion varies with difference in size of alkali cations : Li in place of Na ( i.e. , LiZr2(PO4)3 ) shows positive expansion in both directions whereas K , Rb , Cs behave in a similar fashion as NZP .
Anisotropy	thermal expansion	Anisotropy in thermal expansion varies with difference in size of alkali cations : Li in place of Na ( i.e. , LiZr2(PO4)3 ) shows positive expansion in both directions whereas K , Rb , Cs behave in a similar fashion as NZP .
Wyckoff position	Na	Therefore a third Wyckoff position for Na was introduced in analogy to the structure refinements of Na(3.35)Zr2Si(2.35)P(0.65)O(12) , corresponding to a displacement of the Na(2) position due to the high mobility of the Na ions in the materials at room temperature .
Na	Na(3.35)Zr2Si(2.35)P(0.65)O(12)	Therefore a third Wyckoff position for Na was introduced in analogy to the structure refinements of Na(3.35)Zr2Si(2.35)P(0.65)O(12) , corresponding to a displacement of the Na(2) position due to the high mobility of the Na ions in the materials at room temperature .
structure refinements	Na(3.35)Zr2Si(2.35)P(0.65)O(12)	Therefore a third Wyckoff position for Na was introduced in analogy to the structure refinements of Na(3.35)Zr2Si(2.35)P(0.65)O(12) , corresponding to a displacement of the Na(2) position due to the high mobility of the Na ions in the materials at room temperature .
MCl	Na	The following reagent grade reactants were used : Li2CO3 , MCl ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) , HfO2 and NH4H2PO4 .
MCl	K	The following reagent grade reactants were used : Li2CO3 , MCl ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) , HfO2 and NH4H2PO4 .
MCl	Rb	The following reagent grade reactants were used : Li2CO3 , MCl ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) , HfO2 and NH4H2PO4 .
MCl	Cs	The following reagent grade reactants were used : Li2CO3 , MCl ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) , HfO2 and NH4H2PO4 .
mineral kosnarite	NZP	Sub stitutional solid solutions with the structure of the mineral kosnarite ( NZP ) are formed at the compositions 0 x 0.2 for M = Li ; 0 x 0.4 for M = Na ; 0 x 0.5 for M = K ; 0 x 0.3 for M = Rb ; and 0 x 0.2 for M = Cs .
solid solutions	NZP	Sub stitutional solid solutions with the structure of the mineral kosnarite ( NZP ) are formed at the compositions 0 x 0.2 for M = Li ; 0 x 0.4 for M = Na ; 0 x 0.5 for M = K ; 0 x 0.3 for M = Rb ; and 0 x 0.2 for M = Cs .
powder X-ray diffraction	crystalline phases	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that at the synthesis temperature of 600 <nUm> , the sam ples MZr2VxP3 - xO12 ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) with x < 3 are mixtures of crystalline phases : NZP phase , and ZrO2 ; the samples with x = 3 are amorphous to X-rays .
MZr2VxP3 - xO12	Na	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that at the synthesis temperature of 600 <nUm> , the sam ples MZr2VxP3 - xO12 ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) with x < 3 are mixtures of crystalline phases : NZP phase , and ZrO2 ; the samples with x = 3 are amorphous to X-rays .
MZr2VxP3 - xO12	K	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that at the synthesis temperature of 600 <nUm> , the sam ples MZr2VxP3 - xO12 ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) with x < 3 are mixtures of crystalline phases : NZP phase , and ZrO2 ; the samples with x = 3 are amorphous to X-rays .
MZr2VxP3 - xO12	Rb	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that at the synthesis temperature of 600 <nUm> , the sam ples MZr2VxP3 - xO12 ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) with x < 3 are mixtures of crystalline phases : NZP phase , and ZrO2 ; the samples with x = 3 are amorphous to X-rays .
MZr2VxP3 - xO12	Cs	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that at the synthesis temperature of 600 <nUm> , the sam ples MZr2VxP3 - xO12 ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) with x < 3 are mixtures of crystalline phases : NZP phase , and ZrO2 ; the samples with x = 3 are amorphous to X-rays .
600 <nUm>	MZr2VxP3 - xO12	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that at the synthesis temperature of 600 <nUm> , the sam ples MZr2VxP3 - xO12 ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) with x < 3 are mixtures of crystalline phases : NZP phase , and ZrO2 ; the samples with x = 3 are amorphous to X-rays .
temperature	MZr2VxP3 - xO12	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that at the synthesis temperature of 600 <nUm> , the sam ples MZr2VxP3 - xO12 ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) with x < 3 are mixtures of crystalline phases : NZP phase , and ZrO2 ; the samples with x = 3 are amorphous to X-rays .
crystalline phases	NZP phase	The results of powder X-ray diffraction indicate that at the synthesis temperature of 600 <nUm> , the sam ples MZr2VxP3 - xO12 ( M = Na , K , Rb , Cs ) with x < 3 are mixtures of crystalline phases : NZP phase , and ZrO2 ; the samples with x = 3 are amorphous to X-rays .
vanadate phosphates	Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x	It was planned to prepare vanadate phosphates Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x with M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs in the range of x from 0 to 3 .
Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x	Li	It was planned to prepare vanadate phosphates Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x with M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs in the range of x from 0 to 3 .
Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x	Na	It was planned to prepare vanadate phosphates Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x with M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs in the range of x from 0 to 3 .
MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x	Li	This work deals with replacement of phosphorus by vanadium in the systems MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x ( M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs ) and effect of crystal chemical char acteristics of alkali metals on the limits of P5+ / V5+ isomorphous substitution and structurization of solid solutions .
MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x	Na	This work deals with replacement of phosphorus by vanadium in the systems MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x ( M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs ) and effect of crystal chemical char acteristics of alkali metals on the limits of P5+ / V5+ isomorphous substitution and structurization of solid solutions .
MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x	K	This work deals with replacement of phosphorus by vanadium in the systems MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x ( M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs ) and effect of crystal chemical char acteristics of alkali metals on the limits of P5+ / V5+ isomorphous substitution and structurization of solid solutions .
MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x	Rb	This work deals with replacement of phosphorus by vanadium in the systems MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x ( M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs ) and effect of crystal chemical char acteristics of alkali metals on the limits of P5+ / V5+ isomorphous substitution and structurization of solid solutions .
MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x	Cs	This work deals with replacement of phosphorus by vanadium in the systems MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x ( M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs ) and effect of crystal chemical char acteristics of alkali metals on the limits of P5+ / V5+ isomorphous substitution and structurization of solid solutions .
phosphorus	MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x	This work deals with replacement of phosphorus by vanadium in the systems MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x ( M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs ) and effect of crystal chemical char acteristics of alkali metals on the limits of P5+ / V5+ isomorphous substitution and structurization of solid solutions .
vanadium	MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x	This work deals with replacement of phosphorus by vanadium in the systems MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x ( M = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs ) and effect of crystal chemical char acteristics of alkali metals on the limits of P5+ / V5+ isomorphous substitution and structurization of solid solutions .
sintering additive	ZnO	The use of the sintering additive ZnO at 850 <nUm> gave single phase samples of Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x with an NZP type structure in the range of 0 x 0.4 for M = Na , 0 x 0.5 for M = K , 0 x 0.3 for M = Rb , 0 0.2 for M = Cs .
single phase	Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x	The use of the sintering additive ZnO at 850 <nUm> gave single phase samples of Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x with an NZP type structure in the range of 0 x 0.4 for M = Na , 0 x 0.5 for M = K , 0 x 0.3 for M = Rb , 0 0.2 for M = Cs .
octahedral cavities	sodium cations	The octahedral cavities of the framework present between the lanterns inside the columns are fully occupied by sodium cations ( Na occurs at the mid point of a nearly regular octahedron with an average Na-O distance of 2.5 ) , while the cavities between the neighboring columns remain vacant ( Fig. 6b ) .
alkali	cell parameters	Sljukic et al.1 observedthat substitution of alkali for Na caused the cell parameters to change in an unusual way .
MTi2(AsO4)3	Li	powder diffraction patterns have been reported for MTi2(AsO4)3 ( M = Li , Na , Ag , K ) , M0.5Ti2(AsO4)3 ( M = Mg , Ca , Sr ) and MeZr2(As1(cid : 6)xPxO4)3 ( Me = Na
MTi2(AsO4)3	Na	powder diffraction patterns have been reported for MTi2(AsO4)3 ( M = Li , Na , Ag , K ) , M0.5Ti2(AsO4)3 ( M = Mg , Ca , Sr ) and MeZr2(As1(cid : 6)xPxO4)3 ( Me = Na
MTi2(AsO4)3	K	powder diffraction patterns have been reported for MTi2(AsO4)3 ( M = Li , Na , Ag , K ) , M0.5Ti2(AsO4)3 ( M = Mg , Ca , Sr ) and MeZr2(As1(cid : 6)xPxO4)3 ( Me = Na
MTi2(AsO4)3	Ag	powder diffraction patterns have been reported for MTi2(AsO4)3 ( M = Li , Na , Ag , K ) , M0.5Ti2(AsO4)3 ( M = Mg , Ca , Sr ) and MeZr2(As1(cid : 6)xPxO4)3 ( Me = Na
powder diffraction patterns	MTi2(AsO4)3	powder diffraction patterns have been reported for MTi2(AsO4)3 ( M = Li , Na , Ag , K ) , M0.5Ti2(AsO4)3 ( M = Mg , Ca , Sr ) and MeZr2(As1(cid : 6)xPxO4)3 ( Me = Na
powder diffraction patterns	M0.5Ti2(AsO4)3	powder diffraction patterns have been reported for MTi2(AsO4)3 ( M = Li , Na , Ag , K ) , M0.5Ti2(AsO4)3 ( M = Mg , Ca , Sr ) and MeZr2(As1(cid : 6)xPxO4)3 ( Me = Na
A3M2(AsO4)3	Na	Structural , electrochemical and vibrational studies of A3M2(AsO4)3 ( A = Li , Na ; M = Al , Fe , In ) have been reported .
A3M2(AsO4)3	Fe	Structural , electrochemical and vibrational studies of A3M2(AsO4)3 ( A = Li , Na ; M = Al , Fe , In ) have been reported .
A3M2(AsO4)3	Li	Structural , electrochemical and vibrational studies of A3M2(AsO4)3 ( A = Li , Na ; M = Al , Fe , In ) have been reported .
Structural	A3M2(AsO4)3	Structural , electrochemical and vibrational studies of A3M2(AsO4)3 ( A = Li , Na ; M = Al , Fe , In ) have been reported .
electrochemical	A3M2(AsO4)3	Structural , electrochemical and vibrational studies of A3M2(AsO4)3 ( A = Li , Na ; M = Al , Fe , In ) have been reported .
translational vibrations	Na	The external modes consist of the translational vibrations of the Na , Zr4 and AsO4
translational vibrations	Zr4	The external modes consist of the translational vibrations of the Na , Zr4 and AsO4
external modes	translational vibrations	The external modes consist of the translational vibrations of the Na , Zr4 and AsO4
external modes	Na	The external modes consist of the translational vibrations of the Na , Zr4 and AsO4
Sodium ions	threedimensional interstices	Sodium ions occupy threedimensional interstices : all the octahedral interstices noted Na ( l ) in pure phosphate and also all the irregular 8-coordinated Na(2) in pure silicate ( x = 3 ) .
octahedral interstices	Na ( l )	Sodium ions occupy threedimensional interstices : all the octahedral interstices noted Na ( l ) in pure phosphate and also all the irregular 8-coordinated Na(2) in pure silicate ( x = 3 ) .
octahedral interstices	pure phosphate	Sodium ions occupy threedimensional interstices : all the octahedral interstices noted Na ( l ) in pure phosphate and also all the irregular 8-coordinated Na(2) in pure silicate ( x = 3 ) .
8-coordinated Na(2)	pure silicate	Sodium ions occupy threedimensional interstices : all the octahedral interstices noted Na ( l ) in pure phosphate and also all the irregular 8-coordinated Na(2) in pure silicate ( x = 3 ) .
MZr2P3OI2	Li	Interestingly , the systematic increase in cell volume for MZr2P3OI2 on going from M = Li to Na to Ag to K in Table 5 is due to an increase in cr , the parameter ar actually decreasing slightly .
MZr2P3OI2	Ag	Interestingly , the systematic increase in cell volume for MZr2P3OI2 on going from M = Li to Na to Ag to K in Table 5 is due to an increase in cr , the parameter ar actually decreasing slightly .
cr	cell volume	Interestingly , the systematic increase in cell volume for MZr2P3OI2 on going from M = Li to Na to Ag to K in Table 5 is due to an increase in cr , the parameter ar actually decreasing slightly .
Ag-O bond	ion exchange from Ag to Na	Therefore , if ion exchange with Ag + ions produces a dark product , two inferences can be made : 1 the intranetwork bonding is not strong enough to inhibit hybridization at the Ag ion with formation of a strong covalent contribution to e Ag-O bond and it may not be possible to reverse ion exchange from Ag to Na because of the tight Ag-O bond .
ion exchange with Ag + ions	dark product 	Therefore , if ion exchange with Ag + ions produces a dark product , two inferences can be made : 1 the intranetwork bonding is not strong enough to inhibit hybridization at the Ag ion with formation of a strong covalent contribution to e Ag-O bond and it may not be possible to reverse ion exchange from Ag to Na because of the tight Ag-O bond .
Ag + ions	hybridization	Therefore , if ion exchange with Ag + ions produces a dark product , two inferences can be made : 1 the intranetwork bonding is not strong enough to inhibit hybridization at the Ag ion with formation of a strong covalent contribution to e Ag-O bond and it may not be possible to reverse ion exchange from Ag to Na because of the tight Ag-O bond .
lattice parameters	hexagonal axes	After having adjusted the background , the scale factor , the zero point , the eccentricity , and the lattice parameters ( hexagonal axes ) , only the position of Na , Sn and P atoms could be accepted .
position	Na	After having adjusted the background , the scale factor , the zero point , the eccentricity , and the lattice parameters ( hexagonal axes ) , only the position of Na , Sn and P atoms could be accepted .
position	Sn	After having adjusted the background , the scale factor , the zero point , the eccentricity , and the lattice parameters ( hexagonal axes ) , only the position of Na , Sn and P atoms could be accepted .
position	P atoms	After having adjusted the background , the scale factor , the zero point , the eccentricity , and the lattice parameters ( hexagonal axes ) , only the position of Na , Sn and P atoms could be accepted .
scale factor	position	After having adjusted the background , the scale factor , the zero point , the eccentricity , and the lattice parameters ( hexagonal axes ) , only the position of Na , Sn and P atoms could be accepted .
ionic substitutions	MIM2IV(PO4)3	Several ionic substitutions have been reported since NZP type compounds of composition MIM2IV(PO4)3 , with MI = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs and M = Zr , Hf , were synthesized in 1967 by Sljukic et al. .
NZP type compounds	MIM2IV(PO4)3	Several ionic substitutions have been reported since NZP type compounds of composition MIM2IV(PO4)3 , with MI = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs and M = Zr , Hf , were synthesized in 1967 by Sljukic et al. .
MIM2IV(PO4)3	Li	Several ionic substitutions have been reported since NZP type compounds of composition MIM2IV(PO4)3 , with MI = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs and M = Zr , Hf , were synthesized in 1967 by Sljukic et al. .
MIM2IV(PO4)3	Na	Several ionic substitutions have been reported since NZP type compounds of composition MIM2IV(PO4)3 , with MI = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs and M = Zr , Hf , were synthesized in 1967 by Sljukic et al. .
MIM2IV(PO4)3	K	Several ionic substitutions have been reported since NZP type compounds of composition MIM2IV(PO4)3 , with MI = Li , Na , K , Rb , Cs and M = Zr , Hf , were synthesized in 1967 by Sljukic et al. .
MMo5P8O33	Li	O has shown the formation of K4MO8P12O52 a- , and yCsMo2P3O13 ( 2 ) , and MMo5P8O33 ( M = Li , Na , Ag ) ( 3 ) .
MMo5P8O33	Na	O has shown the formation of K4MO8P12O52 a- , and yCsMo2P3O13 ( 2 ) , and MMo5P8O33 ( M = Li , Na , Ag ) ( 3 ) .
occupancy factor	Na	The occupancy factor for Na was initially refined but the resultant value indicated full occupancy .
occupancy factor	refined	The occupancy factor for Na was initially refined but the resultant value indicated full occupancy .
Mo	oxidation state + 4	The sums of bond strengths using the equations derived by Brown and wu ( 18 ) led to + 0.99 for Na and + 4.28 for Mo , which is a little higher than the formal oxidation state + 4 of Mo in this compound .
bond strengths	Na	The sums of bond strengths using the equations derived by Brown and wu ( 18 ) led to + 0.99 for Na and + 4.28 for Mo , which is a little higher than the formal oxidation state + 4 of Mo in this compound .
distortion	Mo2P4O14	The calculation result ( A x 104 = 0.82 ) shows that the distortion is almost identical with the M04+ - O octahedra in the mixed valence compound Na Mo2P4O14 ( A x 104 0.91 ) , but much smaller than the Mo4 + - O octahedra in TIMo2P3O12 ( A x 104 = 11.2 ) .
distortion	M04+ - O octahedra	The calculation result ( A x 104 = 0.82 ) shows that the distortion is almost identical with the M04+ - O octahedra in the mixed valence compound Na Mo2P4O14 ( A x 104 0.91 ) , but much smaller than the Mo4 + - O octahedra in TIMo2P3O12 ( A x 104 = 11.2 ) .
A1+xMIV2 - xAlx(PO4)3	A = Li12,13 or Na	So , well characterised series are lacking but some have been published , e.g. A1+xMIV2 - xAlx(PO4)3 where xmax = 0.4 , and A = Li12,13 or Na .
Na	Na(2)	The more important degree of freedom , which adjusts along with the incorporation of Na on the M2 site , is the flexibility of the MO6 octahedra which distort by opening the O(1) face thus allowing these oxygens to move towards Na(2) .
flexibility	MO6 octahedra	The more important degree of freedom , which adjusts along with the incorporation of Na on the M2 site , is the flexibility of the MO6 octahedra which distort by opening the O(1) face thus allowing these oxygens to move towards Na(2) .
Na	flexibility	The more important degree of freedom , which adjusts along with the incorporation of Na on the M2 site , is the flexibility of the MO6 octahedra which distort by opening the O(1) face thus allowing these oxygens to move towards Na(2) .
conductivity	Na alumina	For the composition Na3Zr2Si2PO12 the conductivity at 300 <nUm> is comparable to the best Na alumina ; however , the end member NaZr2P3O12 is a poor ionic conductor .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	conductivity	For the composition Na3Zr2Si2PO12 the conductivity at 300 <nUm> is comparable to the best Na alumina ; however , the end member NaZr2P3O12 is a poor ionic conductor .
Na vacancies	conductivity	However , as Na vacancies are introduced into the structure , the conductivity increases dramatically .
structure	Na-O distances	The most significant changes in the structure occur in the Na-O distances and in the thermal parameters of the Na and O atoms .
thermal parameters	O atom	The most significant changes in the structure occur in the Na-O distances and in the thermal parameters of the Na and O atoms .
Zr site	Na	It is assumed , that the Zr site can not be occupied by Na .
octahedra	bottlenecks	The stretching of the octahedra widens the bottlenecks and favours the Na mobility in the a , b plane .
Na	mobility	The stretching of the octahedra widens the bottlenecks and favours the Na mobility in the a , b plane .
Na2.80(20)	60 <nUm>	Na2.80(20) at 60 <nUm> from Lazoryak et al. ; from 2.85 to 2.97 Na ( temperature range 65 - 350 <nUm> ) reported by Tchakev et al. .
T = 200 <nUm>	Na300	Na per unit formula at T = 200 <nUm> ; the ideal composition Na300 from Susman el al. ; Na2.87(3) atand Na at 200 <nUm> from Boilot et al.
T = 200 <nUm>	Na2.87(3)	Na per unit formula at T = 200 <nUm> ; the ideal composition Na300 from Susman el al. ; Na2.87(3) atand Na at 200 <nUm> from Boilot et al.
Na per unit formula	Na300	Na per unit formula at T = 200 <nUm> ; the ideal composition Na300 from Susman el al. ; Na2.87(3) atand Na at 200 <nUm> from Boilot et al.
Na per unit formula	Na2.87(3)	Na per unit formula at T = 200 <nUm> ; the ideal composition Na300 from Susman el al. ; Na2.87(3) atand Na at 200 <nUm> from Boilot et al.
Cs	rhombohedral system	Cs NZP crystallizes in the rhombohedral system ( space group R-3c ) .
rhombohedral system	space group R-3c	Cs NZP crystallizes in the rhombohedral system ( space group R-3c ) .
Cs NZP phase	Z = 6	The Cs NZP phases crystallize in the space group R-3c and Z = 6 .
mole %	Cs	The unit cell volume and polyhedral ( ZrO6 and PO4 ) distortion increase with rise in the mole % of Cs in the NZP matrix .
unit cell volume	mole % of Cs	The unit cell volume and polyhedral ( ZrO6 and PO4 ) distortion increase with rise in the mole % of Cs in the NZP matrix .
polyhedral	ZrO6	The unit cell volume and polyhedral ( ZrO6 and PO4 ) distortion increase with rise in the mole % of Cs in the NZP matrix .
polyhedral	PO4	The unit cell volume and polyhedral ( ZrO6 and PO4 ) distortion increase with rise in the mole % of Cs in the NZP matrix .
Li	positive expansion	Lenainet al. examined all the alkali metal ions and found that Li had a positive expansion in both directions while K , Rb , Cs all behaved in a fashion similar to NZP .
crystalline kosnarite type products	M(1-x)M'xHf2(PO4)3	The crystalline kosnarite type products in the systems M(1-x)M'xHf2(PO4)3 were obtained at temperatures 900 - 1100 <nUm> ( Li - containing samples crystallized at lower temperatures , and Cs - containing - at higher ones ) and thermally stable not less than up to 1300 <nUm> .
crystalline kosnarite type products	thermally stable	The crystalline kosnarite type products in the systems M(1-x)M'xHf2(PO4)3 were obtained at temperatures 900 - 1100 <nUm> ( Li - containing samples crystallized at lower temperatures , and Cs - containing - at higher ones ) and thermally stable not less than up to 1300 <nUm> .
crystalline kosnarite type products	900 - 1100 <nUm>	The crystalline kosnarite type products in the systems M(1-x)M'xHf2(PO4)3 were obtained at temperatures 900 - 1100 <nUm> ( Li - containing samples crystallized at lower temperatures , and Cs - containing - at higher ones ) and thermally stable not less than up to 1300 <nUm> .
K+	ionic radii	In NaZr2P3OI2 , the Nal-O distance is 2.6A , smaller than the sum of K+ and O z ionic radii ( 2.75 A ) , so an expansion of c r must occur in KZr2P3012 .
O	ionic radii	In NaZr2P3OI2 , the Nal-O distance is 2.6A , smaller than the sum of K+ and O z ionic radii ( 2.75 A ) , so an expansion of c r must occur in KZr2P3012 .
NaZr2P3OI2	Nal-O distance	In NaZr2P3OI2 , the Nal-O distance is 2.6A , smaller than the sum of K+ and O z ionic radii ( 2.75 A ) , so an expansion of c r must occur in KZr2P3012 .
expansion	KZr2P3012	In NaZr2P3OI2 , the Nal-O distance is 2.6A , smaller than the sum of K+ and O z ionic radii ( 2.75 A ) , so an expansion of c r must occur in KZr2P3012 .
ionic radii	expansion	In NaZr2P3OI2 , the Nal-O distance is 2.6A , smaller than the sum of K+ and O z ionic radii ( 2.75 A ) , so an expansion of c r must occur in KZr2P3012 .
( SiP ) O bond distance	x to be close to 2	However , they found that the sodium sites were underoccupied and the observed ( SiP ) O bond distance required x to be close to 2 .
Lewis acid catalysts	tetrahydrofuran	The feasibility of using this approach for the assessment of catalyst activity towards a selected synthetic conversion was demonstrated by the performance screening of a selected number of homogeneous Lewis acid catalysts for a synthetic conversion in tetrahydrofuran ( THF ) .
synthesized phosphates	colourless crystals of maricite	The synthesized phosphates consisted of large pink crystals of the title compound , associated with colourless crystals of maricite , NaFe(PO4) , and with isometric black crystals of Na7Fe4(PO4)6 .
synthesized phosphates	NaFe(PO4)	The synthesized phosphates consisted of large pink crystals of the title compound , associated with colourless crystals of maricite , NaFe(PO4) , and with isometric black crystals of Na7Fe4(PO4)6 .
full occupancy	Na1 site	A full occupancy of the Na1 site in Na4FeFe(PO4)3 induces small values for the Na1-O distances and for the c parameter ( 2.402 and 21.28 , respectively ) , while a partial occupancy of this site in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 induces larger values for these parameters ( 2.5 and 21.808 .
Na1 site	Na4FeFe(PO4)3	A full occupancy of the Na1 site in Na4FeFe(PO4)3 induces small values for the Na1-O distances and for the c parameter ( 2.402 and 21.28 , respectively ) , while a partial occupancy of this site in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 induces larger values for these parameters ( 2.5 and 21.808 .
Na4FeFe(PO4)3	Na1-O distances	A full occupancy of the Na1 site in Na4FeFe(PO4)3 induces small values for the Na1-O distances and for the c parameter ( 2.402 and 21.28 , respectively ) , while a partial occupancy of this site in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 induces larger values for these parameters ( 2.5 and 21.808 .
full occupancy of the Na1 site	Na1-O distances	A full occupancy of the Na1 site in Na4FeFe(PO4)3 induces small values for the Na1-O distances and for the c parameter ( 2.402 and 21.28 , respectively ) , while a partial occupancy of this site in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 induces larger values for these parameters ( 2.5 and 21.808 .
full occupancy of the Na1 site	c parameter	A full occupancy of the Na1 site in Na4FeFe(PO4)3 induces small values for the Na1-O distances and for the c parameter ( 2.402 and 21.28 , respectively ) , while a partial occupancy of this site in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 induces larger values for these parameters ( 2.5 and 21.808 .
Na1-O distances	partial occupancy of this site	A full occupancy of the Na1 site in Na4FeFe(PO4)3 induces small values for the Na1-O distances and for the c parameter ( 2.402 and 21.28 , respectively ) , while a partial occupancy of this site in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 induces larger values for these parameters ( 2.5 and 21.808 .
Na4FeFe(PO4)3	large pink crystals	Starting from the composition Na4FeFe(PO4)3 , the hydrothermal synthesis at 500 C and 0.1 GPa produced large pink crystals ; their crystal structure is reported herein .
500 C	large pink crystals	Starting from the composition Na4FeFe(PO4)3 , the hydrothermal synthesis at 500 C and 0.1 GPa produced large pink crystals ; their crystal structure is reported herein .
hydrothermal synthesis	large pink crystals	Starting from the composition Na4FeFe(PO4)3 , the hydrothermal synthesis at 500 C and 0.1 GPa produced large pink crystals ; their crystal structure is reported herein .
Fe1 O average bond length	Na3Fe2(PO4)3	The presence of significant amounts of Fe in the Fe1 site of the title compound also induces a significant increase of the Fe1 O average bond length ( 2.07 ) , when compared to the Fe1 O bond length reported for Na3Fe2(PO4)3 ( 2.002 .
Fe	Fe1 site	The presence of significant amounts of Fe in the Fe1 site of the title compound also induces a significant increase of the Fe1 O average bond length ( 2.07 ) , when compared to the Fe1 O bond length reported for Na3Fe2(PO4)3 ( 2.002 .
c unit cell parameter	Na3Fe2(PO4)3	This increase does not affect the c unit cell parameter , but induces a significant increase of the a parameter , from 8.727 in Na3Fe2(PO4)3 , to 8.954 in the title compound .
crystal structure	Na3Fe2(PO4)3	A comparison with the crystal structure of Na3Fe2(PO4)3 shows that the two phosphates are isostructural .
tetravalent cations	Cr(III)	The NASICON materials Na3Cr2(PO4)3 and Na3Fe2(PO4)3 , in which the tetravalent cations were completely substituted by Cr(III) and Fe(III) , appear to behave differently than the other NASICON materials .
tetravalent cations	Fe(III)	The NASICON materials Na3Cr2(PO4)3 and Na3Fe2(PO4)3 , in which the tetravalent cations were completely substituted by Cr(III) and Fe(III) , appear to behave differently than the other NASICON materials .
Na3Cr2(PO4)3	Cr(III)	The NASICON materials Na3Cr2(PO4)3 and Na3Fe2(PO4)3 , in which the tetravalent cations were completely substituted by Cr(III) and Fe(III) , appear to behave differently than the other NASICON materials .
Na3Fe2(PO4)3	Fe(III)	The NASICON materials Na3Cr2(PO4)3 and Na3Fe2(PO4)3 , in which the tetravalent cations were completely substituted by Cr(III) and Fe(III) , appear to behave differently than the other NASICON materials .
Na - content	charge balance	This high Na - content is necessary to maintain charge balance , since the Fe1 site is occupied by 50 % Fe and 50 % Fe .
microcrystalline NASICON	phase transition	But microcrystalline NASICON , containing Cr and Fe in B site exhibit structural phase transition and crystallized in less stable monoclinic symmetry .
microcrystalline NASICON	monoclinic symmetry	But microcrystalline NASICON , containing Cr and Fe in B site exhibit structural phase transition and crystallized in less stable monoclinic symmetry .
Cr and Fe in B site	phase transition	But microcrystalline NASICON , containing Cr and Fe in B site exhibit structural phase transition and crystallized in less stable monoclinic symmetry .
Fe	occupancy	with a mixed Mn / Fe occupancy , and a PO4 tetrahedron ( site symmetry 0.2 ) .
transition metals	Fe	The fully charged state of Na3TiP3O9N contains Ti4+ , an oxidation state which is very resistant to oxygen loss ( in sharp contrast to tetravalent 3d transition metals such as Mn , Fe , or Co , which are typically susceptible to oxygen loss ) .
transition metals	Mn	The fully charged state of Na3TiP3O9N contains Ti4+ , an oxidation state which is very resistant to oxygen loss ( in sharp contrast to tetravalent 3d transition metals such as Mn , Fe , or Co , which are typically susceptible to oxygen loss ) .
transition metals	Co	The fully charged state of Na3TiP3O9N contains Ti4+ , an oxidation state which is very resistant to oxygen loss ( in sharp contrast to tetravalent 3d transition metals such as Mn , Fe , or Co , which are typically susceptible to oxygen loss ) .
oxygen loss	transition metals	The fully charged state of Na3TiP3O9N contains Ti4+ , an oxidation state which is very resistant to oxygen loss ( in sharp contrast to tetravalent 3d transition metals such as Mn , Fe , or Co , which are typically susceptible to oxygen loss ) .
room temperature	monoclinic deformation	We will briefly mention that for the two other materials , with M = Cr and Fe , powders and crystals exhibit at room temperature the same monoclinic deformation and more generally behave in exactly the same way at all temperatures .
with M = Cr and Fe , powders and crystals	monoclinic deformation	We will briefly mention that for the two other materials , with M = Cr and Fe , powders and crystals exhibit at room temperature the same monoclinic deformation and more generally behave in exactly the same way at all temperatures .
granitic pegmatites	Na Fe Mn bearing phosphates	In the natural geological environment of granitic pegmatites , Na Fe Mn bearing phosphates play important geochemical and petrological roles .
Fe	phosphates	In the natural geological environment of granitic pegmatites , Na Fe Mn bearing phosphates play important geochemical and petrological roles .
Na	phosphates	In the natural geological environment of granitic pegmatites , Na Fe Mn bearing phosphates play important geochemical and petrological roles .
Na+ cations	six coordinated Na1 site	The Na+ cations are distributed over two crystallographic sites : the six coordinated Na1 site which lies between two lantern units , and the eight coordinated Na2 site which lies at the same z value as the P site .
Na+ cations	eight coordinated Na2 site	The Na+ cations are distributed over two crystallographic sites : the six coordinated Na1 site which lies between two lantern units , and the eight coordinated Na2 site which lies at the same z value as the P site .
Na+ cations	sixfold coordination	The two independent Na+ cations are partially occupied [ site - occupancy factors = 0.805 ( 18 and 0.731 ( 7 ) ] and are located in channels with two different oxygen environments , viz sixfold coordination for the first ( 3 symmetry ) and eightfold for the second ( 0.2 symmetry ) Na+ cation .
Na+ cations	eightfold	The two independent Na+ cations are partially occupied [ site - occupancy factors = 0.805 ( 18 and 0.731 ( 7 ) ] and are located in channels with two different oxygen environments , viz sixfold coordination for the first ( 3 symmetry ) and eightfold for the second ( 0.2 symmetry ) Na+ cation .
Na+ cations	partially occupied	The two independent Na+ cations are partially occupied [ site - occupancy factors = 0.805 ( 18 and 0.731 ( 7 ) ] and are located in channels with two different oxygen environments , viz sixfold coordination for the first ( 3 symmetry ) and eightfold for the second ( 0.2 symmetry ) Na+ cation .
Na+ cations	partially occupied sites	The Na+ cations are distributed over two partially occupied sites in the cavities of the framework .
partially occupied sites	cavities	The Na+ cations are distributed over two partially occupied sites in the cavities of the framework .
negatively charged 3D-framework	M2X3O12	The NASICON structure has a negatively charged 3D-framework , of general formula M2X3O12 , where the Na+ cations reside in fully or partially - occupied sites .
Na+ cations	fully or partially - occupied sites	The NASICON structure has a negatively charged 3D-framework , of general formula M2X3O12 , where the Na+ cations reside in fully or partially - occupied sites .
large charge compensating	Na+ cations	The large charge compensating Na+ cations are located in these positions .
negatively charged framework	Na+ cations	The negatively charged framework is neutralised by the Na+ cations which are distributed over the M1 site , fully occupied , and M2 site , partly occupied .
Na+ cations	M1 site	The negatively charged framework is neutralised by the Na+ cations which are distributed over the M1 site , fully occupied , and M2 site , partly occupied .
M1 site	fully occupied	The negatively charged framework is neutralised by the Na+ cations which are distributed over the M1 site , fully occupied , and M2 site , partly occupied .
NaTi2[AsO4]3 structure	three dimensional framework	The NaTi2[AsO4]3 structure consists of a three dimensional framework of corner sharing AsO4 tetrahedra and TiO6 octahedra .
three dimensional framework	AsO4 tetrahedra	The NaTi2[AsO4]3 structure consists of a three dimensional framework of corner sharing AsO4 tetrahedra and TiO6 octahedra .
three dimensional framework	TiO6 octahedra	The NaTi2[AsO4]3 structure consists of a three dimensional framework of corner sharing AsO4 tetrahedra and TiO6 octahedra .
NaTi2[AsO4]3	solid state reaction	NaTi2[AsO4]3 was prepared by solid state reaction from a mixture of arsenic ( Sigma-Aldrich , 99.999 % ) , titanium dioxide ( Chempur , > 99.99 % ) and a NaCl ( Merck , > 99.5 % ) / KCl ( Chempur , 99.9 % ) salt flux ( 1 : 1 molar ratio ) with a 2 : 3 : 10 molar ratio .
NaTi2[AsO4]3	titanium dioxide	NaTi2[AsO4]3 was prepared by solid state reaction from a mixture of arsenic ( Sigma-Aldrich , 99.999 % ) , titanium dioxide ( Chempur , > 99.99 % ) and a NaCl ( Merck , > 99.5 % ) / KCl ( Chempur , 99.9 % ) salt flux ( 1 : 1 molar ratio ) with a 2 : 3 : 10 molar ratio .
NaTi2[AsO4]3	arsenic	NaTi2[AsO4]3 was prepared by solid state reaction from a mixture of arsenic ( Sigma-Aldrich , 99.999 % ) , titanium dioxide ( Chempur , > 99.99 % ) and a NaCl ( Merck , > 99.5 % ) / KCl ( Chempur , 99.9 % ) salt flux ( 1 : 1 molar ratio ) with a 2 : 3 : 10 molar ratio .
colorless crystals	KTiO[AsO4]	we obtained few colorless crystals of NaTi2[AsO4]3 (cubes) , KTiO[AsO4] ( plates ) .
NaTiO[AsO4]	phase	The analysis of the obtained powder showed the presence of NaTiO[AsO4] beside the major phase NaTi2[AsO4]3 .
NaTiO[AsO4]	NaTi2[AsO4]3	The analysis of the obtained powder showed the presence of NaTiO[AsO4] beside the major phase NaTi2[AsO4]3 .
NaTi2[AsO4]3	NaTiO[AsO4]	When one fires the mixture at higher temperature ( 950 ) the amount of NaTi2[AsO4]3 decreases in favor of NaTiO[AsO4] .
higher temperature	NaTi2[AsO4]3	When one fires the mixture at higher temperature ( 950 ) the amount of NaTi2[AsO4]3 decreases in favor of NaTiO[AsO4] .
arsenate(V)	NaTi2[AsO4]3	The arsenate(V) NaTi2[AsO4]3 has been synthesized by a solid state reaction route using a salt flux .
NaTi2[AsO4]3	solid state reaction route	The arsenate(V) NaTi2[AsO4]3 has been synthesized by a solid state reaction route using a salt flux .
solid state reaction route	salt flux	The arsenate(V) NaTi2[AsO4]3 has been synthesized by a solid state reaction route using a salt flux .
[Ti2As3O12]	interstices	The negatively charged [Ti2As3O12] framework gives rise to two different interstices .
negatively charged	[Ti2As3O12]	The negatively charged [Ti2As3O12] framework gives rise to two different interstices .
Na cation	6b position	The Na cation is located on the 6b position with a trigonal antiprismatic coordination and enhanced anisotropic displacement parameters .
Na cation	trigonal antiprismatic coordination	The Na cation is located on the 6b position with a trigonal antiprismatic coordination and enhanced anisotropic displacement parameters .
Ti2As3O12]1	interstices	Ti2As3O12]1 framework contains two interstices .
Na atom	six coordinated trigonal antiprismatic site	The Na atom is found in a six coordinated trigonal antiprismatic site formed by two faces of two TiO6 octahedra along the c axis with Na-O distances of 2.489 A .
six coordinated trigonal antiprismatic site	TiO6 octahedra	The Na atom is found in a six coordinated trigonal antiprismatic site formed by two faces of two TiO6 octahedra along the c axis with Na-O distances of 2.489 A .
Na cations	M1 sites	As the Na cations are preferentially located at M1 sites , the time spent by a Na atom at M1 sites should be higher than that spent at M2 sites and the resulting quadrupole constants would be similar to those of M1 sites .
time spent	Na atom at M1 sites	As the Na cations are preferentially located at M1 sites , the time spent by a Na atom at M1 sites should be higher than that spent at M2 sites and the resulting quadrupole constants would be similar to those of M1 sites .
time spent	quadrupole constants	As the Na cations are preferentially located at M1 sites , the time spent by a Na atom at M1 sites should be higher than that spent at M2 sites and the resulting quadrupole constants would be similar to those of M1 sites .
Na atom	NaZr2P3O12	Large thermal parameters for the Na atom were also observed in NaZr2P3O12 .
thermal parameters	Na atom	Large thermal parameters for the Na atom were also observed in NaZr2P3O12 .
alkali ion	NaTi2[PO4]3	This corresponds to the alkali ion position in NaTi2[PO4]3 , KTi2[PO4]3 and RbTi2[PO4]3 .
alkali ion	KTi2[PO4]3	This corresponds to the alkali ion position in NaTi2[PO4]3 , KTi2[PO4]3 and RbTi2[PO4]3 .
arsenic	fractional sublimation	The arsenic was purified by fractional sublimation .
X-ray diffraction patterns	arsenic	Further increase in the annealing temperature to 950 <nUm> resulted in the appearance of zirconium oxide reflections in the X-ray diffraction patterns of all arsenic containing samples .
950 <nUm>	zirconium oxide	Further increase in the annealing temperature to 950 <nUm> resulted in the appearance of zirconium oxide reflections in the X-ray diffraction patterns of all arsenic containing samples .
zirconium oxide reflections	arsenic	Further increase in the annealing temperature to 950 <nUm> resulted in the appearance of zirconium oxide reflections in the X-ray diffraction patterns of all arsenic containing samples .
As-O-O	AsO4	The similar chemical properties of phosphorus and arsenic , which are located in the same group of the Mendeleev Table , the slight difference between the As-O-O and P-O-O bond lengths in the AsO4 and PO4 tetrahedra ( 1.69 and 1.53 , respectively ) and electrone gativities ( 2.1 and 2.2 ) allow one to hope for broad iso morphism in the series of arsenate phosphates .
P-O-O bond lengths	PO4 tetrahedra	The similar chemical properties of phosphorus and arsenic , which are located in the same group of the Mendeleev Table , the slight difference between the As-O-O and P-O-O bond lengths in the AsO4 and PO4 tetrahedra ( 1.69 and 1.53 , respectively ) and electrone gativities ( 2.1 and 2.2 ) allow one to hope for broad iso morphism in the series of arsenate phosphates .
PO4 tetrahedra	electrone gativities	The similar chemical properties of phosphorus and arsenic , which are located in the same group of the Mendeleev Table , the slight difference between the As-O-O and P-O-O bond lengths in the AsO4 and PO4 tetrahedra ( 1.69 and 1.53 , respectively ) and electrone gativities ( 2.1 and 2.2 ) allow one to hope for broad iso morphism in the series of arsenate phosphates .
solution of arsenic	heating	The solution of arsenic acid was prepared by dissolving elemental arsenic with heating in a solution of nitric and hydrochloric acids present in 1 : 1 ratio ( by volume ) .
arsenic	NTP	Though , in the case of arsenic substituted NTP , the amount of charge carrier Na+ was kept constant when the amount of substituted element was increased .
amount	charge carrier Na+	Though , in the case of arsenic substituted NTP , the amount of charge carrier Na+ was kept constant when the amount of substituted element was increased .
hydrothermal synthesis	NTP	In this letter , we report the hydrothermal synthesis of arsenic substituted NTP and discuss its electric conductivity associated with the crystallographic properties of the sintered materials .
arsenic	NTP	In this letter , we report the hydrothermal synthesis of arsenic substituted NTP and discuss its electric conductivity associated with the crystallographic properties of the sintered materials .
NTP	electric conductivity	In this letter , we report the hydrothermal synthesis of arsenic substituted NTP and discuss its electric conductivity associated with the crystallographic properties of the sintered materials .
lattice parameters	tetrahedral unit	Table II shows the change of the lattice parameters and the bond distances of tetrahedral unit in NTP structure with the amount of substituted arsenic .
bond distances	tetrahedral unit	Table II shows the change of the lattice parameters and the bond distances of tetrahedral unit in NTP structure with the amount of substituted arsenic .
tetrahedral unit	NTP structure	Table II shows the change of the lattice parameters and the bond distances of tetrahedral unit in NTP structure with the amount of substituted arsenic .
bond distances	amount of substituted arsenic	Table II shows the change of the lattice parameters and the bond distances of tetrahedral unit in NTP structure with the amount of substituted arsenic .
distances	arsenic substitution	The distances obviously increase with an increase in arsenic substitution , and this natural characteristic of the crystal structure may cause a decrease in the activation energy of ionic migration .
arsenic substitution	crystal structure	The distances obviously increase with an increase in arsenic substitution , and this natural characteristic of the crystal structure may cause a decrease in the activation energy of ionic migration .
arsenic substitution	activation energy	The distances obviously increase with an increase in arsenic substitution , and this natural characteristic of the crystal structure may cause a decrease in the activation energy of ionic migration .
ionic radii	As5+	The larger cell volumes in these NASICON type structures with higher arsenic substitutions must be a result of the different ionic radii of P5+ and As5+ .
cell volumes	ionic radii of P5+ and As5+	The larger cell volumes in these NASICON type structures with higher arsenic substitutions must be a result of the different ionic radii of P5+ and As5+ .
NASICON type structures	arsenic	The larger cell volumes in these NASICON type structures with higher arsenic substitutions must be a result of the different ionic radii of P5+ and As5+ .
NaTi2(PO4)3	sodium metaphosphate	They obtained the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 from a mixture of sodium metaphosphate and titanium dioxide heated in a platinum crucible for 24 h at 1200 <nUm> .
NaTi2(PO4)3	titanium dioxide	They obtained the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 from a mixture of sodium metaphosphate and titanium dioxide heated in a platinum crucible for 24 h at 1200 <nUm> .
NaTi2(PO4)3	24 h	They obtained the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 from a mixture of sodium metaphosphate and titanium dioxide heated in a platinum crucible for 24 h at 1200 <nUm> .
alkali metal salts	KCl melts	The alkali metal immobilization problem is topical in the pyrochemical reprocessing of spent nuclear fuels using high temperature melts of alkali metal salts ( for example , NaCl , KCl melts ) .
pyrochemical reprocessing	alkali metal salts	The alkali metal immobilization problem is topical in the pyrochemical reprocessing of spent nuclear fuels using high temperature melts of alkali metal salts ( for example , NaCl , KCl melts ) .
pyrochemical reprocessing	high temperature melts	The alkali metal immobilization problem is topical in the pyrochemical reprocessing of spent nuclear fuels using high temperature melts of alkali metal salts ( for example , NaCl , KCl melts ) .
partial pressure of oxygen	KClO4	The tube was heated at 500 for 12h and at 850 for 48h under controlled partial pressure of oxygen ( KClO4 ) .
heated	500 for 12h	The tube was heated at 500 for 12h and at 850 for 48h under controlled partial pressure of oxygen ( KClO4 ) .
full contravariant tensors	Na ( l )	Refinements also included anharmonic corrections to the Debye Waller factors up to the 4th order with full contravariant tensors for Na ( l ) and Na(2) and contracted contravariant pseudotensors for oxygen and zirconium atoms .
full contravariant tensors	Na(2)	Refinements also included anharmonic corrections to the Debye Waller factors up to the 4th order with full contravariant tensors for Na ( l ) and Na(2) and contracted contravariant pseudotensors for oxygen and zirconium atoms .
Refinements	anharmonic corrections to the Debye Waller factors up to the 4th order	Refinements also included anharmonic corrections to the Debye Waller factors up to the 4th order with full contravariant tensors for Na ( l ) and Na(2) and contracted contravariant pseudotensors for oxygen and zirconium atoms .
oxygen peaks	electron density functions	The largest maximum in this synthesis has a magnitude of about 20 % of the heights of the oxygen peaks in the electron density functions .
Na(2)	eight coordinate site	Na(2) is found in an irregular eight coordinate site with six oxygen neighbors at distances from 2.532 to 2.662 A and two more distant oxygen neighbors at 3.049 A .
three dimensional framework	ZrO6 octahedra	The robust three dimensional framework is formed by fundamental groups consisting of two ZrO6 octahedra and three SiO4 / PO4 tetrahedra with which they share corner oxygen .
three dimensional framework	SiO4 / PO4 tetrahedra	The robust three dimensional framework is formed by fundamental groups consisting of two ZrO6 octahedra and three SiO4 / PO4 tetrahedra with which they share corner oxygen .
homogenized	a ball mill	Firstly , amounts of TiO2 and SnO 2 in the desired composition ratio were thoroughly homogenized in distilled water in a ball mill for 30 minutes .
TiO2	homogenized	Firstly , amounts of TiO2 and SnO 2 in the desired composition ratio were thoroughly homogenized in distilled water in a ball mill for 30 minutes .
TiO2	hydrolysis	Activated TiO2 was prepared by slow hydrolysis of commercial Ti(OCH(CH3)2)4 with a 1 : 4 water to propanol solution .
hydrolysis	Ti(OCH(CH3)2)4	Activated TiO2 was prepared by slow hydrolysis of commercial Ti(OCH(CH3)2)4 with a 1 : 4 water to propanol solution .
TiO2	slow hydrolysis of commercial Ti(OCH(CH3)2)4 with a 1 : 4 water to propanol solution	Activated TiO2 was prepared by slow hydrolysis of commercial Ti(OCH(CH3)2)4 with a 1 : 4 water to propanol solution .
arsenic atoms	four coordinated oxygenatoms	The arsenic atoms are four coordinated oxygenatoms .
unit cells	continuos substitution solid solutions	The calculated param eters of their unit cells increase monotonically follow ing an increase in the content of larger arsenic atoms ( compared to phosphorus atoms ) , which attests to the formation of continuos substitution solid solutions in this system .
As5 cation	over bonded	The calculated BVS value 5.22 shows that the As5 cation is also slightly over bonded .
Sodium atoms	voids of the framework	Sodium atoms are located in the voids of the framework with sixfold ( 6b ) and eightfold ( 18b ) coordination when a cut off distance of 2.9 is considered .
Sodium atoms	eightfold ( 18b ) coordination	Sodium atoms are located in the voids of the framework with sixfold ( 6b ) and eightfold ( 18b ) coordination when a cut off distance of 2.9 is considered .
Sodium atoms are located in the voids of the framework with sixfold ( 6b ) and eightfold ( 18b ) coordination	cut off distance of 2.9	Sodium atoms are located in the voids of the framework with sixfold ( 6b ) and eightfold ( 18b ) coordination when a cut off distance of 2.9 is considered .
Crystals of ( I )	crystallization technique	Crystals of ( I ) were obtained in the system NaPO O NaVPO using a high temperature crystallization technique .
trisodium divanadium(III) tris	orthophosphate	Single crystals of the title compound , trisodium divanadium(III) tris ( orthophosphate ) , were grown from a self-flux in the system Na4P2O7 O NaVP2O7.Na3V2(PO4)3 belongs to the family of NASICON related structures and is built up from isolated [VO6] octahedra ( 3 symmetry ) and [PO4] tetrahedra ( 0.2 symmetry ) interlinked via corners to establish the framework anion [V2(PO4)3]3 .
Na4P2O7 O	NASICON	Single crystals of the title compound , trisodium divanadium(III) tris ( orthophosphate ) , were grown from a self-flux in the system Na4P2O7 O NaVP2O7.Na3V2(PO4)3 belongs to the family of NASICON related structures and is built up from isolated [VO6] octahedra ( 3 symmetry ) and [PO4] tetrahedra ( 0.2 symmetry ) interlinked via corners to establish the framework anion [V2(PO4)3]3 .
NaVP2O7.Na3V2(PO4)3	NASICON	Single crystals of the title compound , trisodium divanadium(III) tris ( orthophosphate ) , were grown from a self-flux in the system Na4P2O7 O NaVP2O7.Na3V2(PO4)3 belongs to the family of NASICON related structures and is built up from isolated [VO6] octahedra ( 3 symmetry ) and [PO4] tetrahedra ( 0.2 symmetry ) interlinked via corners to establish the framework anion [V2(PO4)3]3 .
preheated	orthophosghate	The mixtures were preheated at 1700 C for 4 hours to decompose the NH4H2PO4 , at 9000 C for 4 hours to decompose the Na2C03 , and overnight at 12000 C to transform any metaphosphate to orthophosghate .
1700 C for 4 hours	decompose the NH4H2PO4	The mixtures were preheated at 1700 C for 4 hours to decompose the NH4H2PO4 , at 9000 C for 4 hours to decompose the Na2C03 , and overnight at 12000 C to transform any metaphosphate to orthophosghate .
9000 C for 4 hours	decompose the Na2C03	The mixtures were preheated at 1700 C for 4 hours to decompose the NH4H2PO4 , at 9000 C for 4 hours to decompose the Na2C03 , and overnight at 12000 C to transform any metaphosphate to orthophosghate .
NaSn2(PO4)3	heated	Powder crystalline samples of NaSn2(PO4)3 have been prepared from mixtures of SnO2 , NH4H2PO4 and Na2CO 3 in stoichiometric proportions and heated , as described elsewhere ( 1 ) .
Powder crystalline samples	NaSn2(PO4)3	Powder crystalline samples of NaSn2(PO4)3 have been prepared from mixtures of SnO2 , NH4H2PO4 and Na2CO 3 in stoichiometric proportions and heated , as described elsewhere ( 1 ) .
NH4H2PO4	heated	Powder crystalline samples of NaSn2(PO4)3 have been prepared from mixtures of SnO2 , NH4H2PO4 and Na2CO 3 in stoichiometric proportions and heated , as described elsewhere ( 1 ) .
Na2CO 3	heated	Powder crystalline samples of NaSn2(PO4)3 have been prepared from mixtures of SnO2 , NH4H2PO4 and Na2CO 3 in stoichiometric proportions and heated , as described elsewhere ( 1 ) .
two types of sites	M1 and M2	The charge compensating A cations occupy two types of sites , M1 and M2 ( 1 : 3 multiplicity ) , in interconnected channels formed by corner sharing PO4 tetrahedra and BO6 octahedra .
A cations	M1 and M2	The charge compensating A cations occupy two types of sites , M1 and M2 ( 1 : 3 multiplicity ) , in interconnected channels formed by corner sharing PO4 tetrahedra and BO6 octahedra .
channels	PO4 tetrahedra	The charge compensating A cations occupy two types of sites , M1 and M2 ( 1 : 3 multiplicity ) , in interconnected channels formed by corner sharing PO4 tetrahedra and BO6 octahedra .
channels	BO6 octahedra	The charge compensating A cations occupy two types of sites , M1 and M2 ( 1 : 3 multiplicity ) , in interconnected channels formed by corner sharing PO4 tetrahedra and BO6 octahedra .
M2 sites	ten-fold oxygen coordination	M1 sites are surrounded by six oxygens and located at an inversion center and M2 sites are symmetrically distributed around three-fold axis of the structure with ten-fold oxygen coordination .
M1 sites	six oxygens	M1 sites are surrounded by six oxygens and located at an inversion center and M2 sites are symmetrically distributed around three-fold axis of the structure with ten-fold oxygen coordination .
tetrahedron	oxygens	In the NASICON structure each tetrahedron shares oxygens with four octahedra : two in the same M2(PO4)3 unit and two with other adjacent units .
oxygens	octahedra	In the NASICON structure each tetrahedron shares oxygens with four octahedra : two in the same M2(PO4)3 unit and two with other adjacent units .
NASICON structure	tetrahedron	In the NASICON structure each tetrahedron shares oxygens with four octahedra : two in the same M2(PO4)3 unit and two with other adjacent units .
Na ions	M1 sites	Na ions at the M1 sites are coordinated by a trigonal antiprism of oxygens and at the M2 site has a distorted 8-fold coordination .
M1 sites	trigonal antiprism	Na ions at the M1 sites are coordinated by a trigonal antiprism of oxygens and at the M2 site has a distorted 8-fold coordination .
Na ions	M2 site	Na ions at the M1 sites are coordinated by a trigonal antiprism of oxygens and at the M2 site has a distorted 8-fold coordination .
M2 site	8-fold coordination	Na ions at the M1 sites are coordinated by a trigonal antiprism of oxygens and at the M2 site has a distorted 8-fold coordination .
interstitials	three nearest neighbour oxygens of the coordination octahedron	This is a quite significant effect which lead to the following model : If one of the interstitials is occupied , the three nearest neighbour oxygens of the coordination octahedron move apart .
rotations	polyhedra	As the thermo mechanical properties in these materialslye mainly in the rotations of such polyhedra , we have had to look for a more sensible technique able to locate precisely the oxygens .
thermo mechanical properties	polyhedra	As the thermo mechanical properties in these materialslye mainly in the rotations of such polyhedra , we have had to look for a more sensible technique able to locate precisely the oxygens .
chemical bond	orbitals	They suggest that the chemical bond between the metal and the oxygens , based in the d2sp3 hybridization of the metal , gets a bigger contribution from the 'd orbitals ' in the case of Ti4+ and Zr4+ than in the case of Sn4+ , which is a post-transition metal with all the 'd orbitals occupied and unable to help in the bond to the neighbouring oxygens .
chemical bond	Ti4+	They suggest that the chemical bond between the metal and the oxygens , based in the d2sp3 hybridization of the metal , gets a bigger contribution from the 'd orbitals ' in the case of Ti4+ and Zr4+ than in the case of Sn4+ , which is a post-transition metal with all the 'd orbitals occupied and unable to help in the bond to the neighbouring oxygens .
chemical bond	Sn4+	They suggest that the chemical bond between the metal and the oxygens , based in the d2sp3 hybridization of the metal , gets a bigger contribution from the 'd orbitals ' in the case of Ti4+ and Zr4+ than in the case of Sn4+ , which is a post-transition metal with all the 'd orbitals occupied and unable to help in the bond to the neighbouring oxygens .
Na2 site	Na4Zr2Si3OJ2	Note that the Na2 site is fully occupied in the phosphorus - free end member Na4Zr2Si3OJ2 .
Vanadium	phosphorus	Vanadium is present in the phosphate structures and occupies the same positions as phosphorus , as indicated by the form and the number of bands for the VO34 ion .
Vanadium	VO34 ion	Vanadium is present in the phosphate structures and occupies the same positions as phosphorus , as indicated by the form and the number of bands for the VO34 ion .
Vanadium	phosphate structures	Vanadium is present in the phosphate structures and occupies the same positions as phosphorus , as indicated by the form and the number of bands for the VO34 ion .
phosphorus	NaZr2P3OI2	The principal objective of these high temperature x-ray measurements on NZP is to determine the thermal expansion mechanisms of the phosphorus end member NaZr2P3OI2 and to compare these results with the predictions of Lenain et al.
thermal expansion	NaZr2P3OI3	The principal objective of these high temperature x-ray measurements on NZP is to determine the thermal expansion mechanisms of the phosphorus end member NaZr2P3OI3 and to compare these results with the predictions of Lenain et al.
x-ray measurements	NZP	The principal objective of these high temperature x-ray measurements on NZP is to determine the thermal expansion mechanisms of the phosphorus end member NaZr2P3OI6 and to compare these results with the predictions of Lenain et al.
phosphorus	electron microprobe analysis	The silicon to phosphorus ratio was determined by electron microprobe analysis of the sample .
boiling	phosphorus	After leaching with boiling water the amount of phosphorus in the solution was determined gravimetrically as Mg2P207 .
annealed	850 900 <nUm> 	The powders obtained by precipitation and annealed at 800 <nUm> were mixed with ZnO , pressed at 300 MPa , and annealed at 850 900 <nUm> for 24 h .
annealed	24 h	The powders obtained by precipitation and annealed at 800 <nUm> were mixed with ZnO , pressed at 300 MPa , and annealed at 850 900 <nUm> for 24 h .
sintering additive	ZnO	As the sintering additive , we used ZnO ( 0.75 wt % ) .
ZnO	0.75 wt %	As the sintering additive , we used ZnO ( 0.75 wt % ) .
pressed	NZP phases	Powder X-ray diffraction analysis of the arsenate phosphate sample NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 pressed and annealed under the same conditions but without zinc oxide showed the presence of two NZP phases , as in the case of synthesis without the sintering additive or pressing .
annealed	NZP phases	Powder X-ray diffraction analysis of the arsenate phosphate sample NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 pressed and annealed under the same conditions but without zinc oxide showed the presence of two NZP phases , as in the case of synthesis without the sintering additive or pressing .
Powder X-ray diffraction analysis	NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5	Powder X-ray diffraction analysis of the arsenate phosphate sample NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 pressed and annealed under the same conditions but without zinc oxide showed the presence of two NZP phases , as in the case of synthesis without the sintering additive or pressing .
thermal expansion	NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5	The thermal expansion of the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 and the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction .
thermal expansion	NaZr2(AsO4)3	The thermal expansion of the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 and the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction .
arsenate	NaZr2(AsO4)3	The thermal expansion of the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 and the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction .
thermal expansion	thermal X-ray diffraction	The thermal expansion of the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 and the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction .
tetrahedral	NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5	The occupancy of the tetrahedral positions in NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 by larger arsenic cations results in expansion of the cell along crystallographic axes .
tetrahedral	arsenic cations	The occupancy of the tetrahedral positions in NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 by larger arsenic cations results in expansion of the cell along crystallographic axes .
arsenic cations	expansion	The occupancy of the tetrahedral positions in NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 by larger arsenic cations results in expansion of the cell along crystallographic axes .
NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5	crystallographic axes	The occupancy of the tetrahedral positions in NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 by larger arsenic cations results in expansion of the cell along crystallographic axes .
NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5	profile analysis	The crystal structure of NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 was refined by full profile analysis : space group R3c , a = 8.9600(4) , c = 22.9770(9) , V = 1597.5(1) Rwp = 4.55 .
crystal structure	profile analysis	The crystal structure of NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 was refined by full profile analysis : space group R3c , a = 8.9600(4) , c = 22.9770(9) , V = 1597.5(1) Rwp = 4.55 .
crystal structure	a = 8.9600(4)	The crystal structure of NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 was refined by full profile analysis : space group R3c , a = 8.9600(4) , c = 22.9770(9) , V = 1597.5(1) Rwp = 4.55 .
crystal structure	c = 22.9770(9)	The crystal structure of NaZr2(AsO4)1.5(PO4)1.5 was refined by full profile analysis : space group R3c , a = 8.9600(4) , c = 22.9770(9) , V = 1597.5(1) Rwp = 4.55 .
arsenate	NaZr2(AsO4)3	The values of linear ther mal expansion coefficients of the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 .
linear ther mal expansion coefficients	NaZr2(AsO4)3	The values of linear ther mal expansion coefficients of the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 .
thermal expansion	NaZr2(AsO4)3	The thermal expansion of the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)(1.5) and the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction in the temperature range of 20 - 800 <nUm> .
thermal expansion	NaZr2(AsO4)(1.5)	The thermal expansion of the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)(1.5) and the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction in the temperature range of 20 - 800 <nUm> .
thermal expansion	20 - 800 <nUm>	The thermal expansion of the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)(1.5) and the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction in the temperature range of 20 - 800 <nUm> .
arsenate phosphate	NaZr2(AsO4)(1.5)	The thermal expansion of the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)(1.5) and the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction in the temperature range of 20 - 800 <nUm> .
thermal expansion	thermal X-ray diffraction	The thermal expansion of the arsenate phosphate NaZr2(AsO4)(1.5) and the arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 was studied by thermal X-ray diffraction in the temperature range of 20 - 800 <nUm> .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	Nasicon type family	The structure of NaZr2(AsO4)3 , which belongs to the Nasicon type family , was solved by the Rietveld method in the R(cid:1)3c space group , from X-ray powder diffraction data .
Nasicon type family	Rietveld method	The structure of NaZr2(AsO4)3 , which belongs to the Nasicon type family , was solved by the Rietveld method in the R(cid:1)3c space group , from X-ray powder diffraction data .
R(cid:1)3c space group	X-ray powder diffraction	The structure of NaZr2(AsO4)3 , which belongs to the Nasicon type family , was solved by the Rietveld method in the R(cid:1)3c space group , from X-ray powder diffraction data .
crystal structure	NaZr2(AsO4)3	The present paper reports on the crystal structure and vibrational spectra of NaZr2(AsO4)3 .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	Rietveld method	The structure of NaZr2(AsO4)3 was reed with the Rietveld method using the program Fullprof .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	white	The powder of NaZr2(AsO4)3 is white .
Deconvoluted Raman spectrum	NaZr2(AsO4)3	Deconvoluted Raman spectrum of NaZr2(AsO4)3 in the range of 750 1000 .
Deconvoluted Raman spectrum	750 1000	Deconvoluted Raman spectrum of NaZr2(AsO4)3 in the range of 750 1000 .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	R(cid:1)3c space group	In NaZr2(AsO4)3 ( R(cid:1)3c space group ) the arsenic site has a C2 symmetry ; therefore , we expect six Raman active modes for the stretching vibrations and six IR active modes .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	arsenic site	In NaZr2(AsO4)3 ( R(cid:1)3c space group ) the arsenic site has a C2 symmetry ; therefore , we expect six Raman active modes for the stretching vibrations and six IR active modes .
arsenic site	C2 symmetry	In NaZr2(AsO4)3 ( R(cid:1)3c space group ) the arsenic site has a C2 symmetry ; therefore , we expect six Raman active modes for the stretching vibrations and six IR active modes .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	AsO4 tetrahedra	The high frequency part ( 800 - 1050 cm(cid : 6)1 ) of the Raman spectrum of NaZr2(AsO4)3 ( Fig.5 ) corresponds to the stretching vibrations of the AsO4 tetrahedra and exhibits six peaks at 979 , 951 , 867 , 863 , 856 and 837 cm(cid : 6)1 , in good agreement with results of the factor group analysis .
stretching vibrations	AsO4 tetrahedra	The high frequency part ( 800 - 1050 cm(cid : 6)1 ) of the Raman spectrum of NaZr2(AsO4)3 ( Fig.5 ) corresponds to the stretching vibrations of the AsO4 tetrahedra and exhibits six peaks at 979 , 951 , 867 , 863 , 856 and 837 cm(cid : 6)1 , in good agreement with results of the factor group analysis .
NaZr2(AsO4)3	factor group analysis	The high frequency part ( 800 - 1050 cm(cid : 6)1 ) of the Raman spectrum of NaZr2(AsO4)3 ( Fig.5 ) corresponds to the stretching vibrations of the AsO4 tetrahedra and exhibits six peaks at 979 , 951 , 867 , 863 , 856 and 837 cm(cid : 6)1 , in good agreement with results of the factor group analysis .
high frequency	Raman spectrum	The high frequency part ( 800 - 1050 cm(cid : 6)1 ) of the Raman spectrum of NaZr2(AsO4)3 ( Fig.5 ) corresponds to the stretching vibrations of the AsO4 tetrahedra and exhibits six peaks at 979 , 951 , 867 , 863 , 856 and 837 cm(cid : 6)1 , in good agreement with results of the factor group analysis .
Infrared spectrum	NaZr2(AsO4)3	Infrared spectrum of NaZr2(AsO4)3 .
tetrahedra	phosphorus atoms	The framework of the vanadate phosphate structure is composed of tetrahedra ( that are statistically occupied by vanadium and phosphorus atoms ) and ZrO6 octahedra .
ZrO6	octahedra	The framework of the vanadate phosphate structure is composed of tetrahedra ( that are statistically occupied by vanadium and phosphorus atoms ) and ZrO6 octahedra .
tetrahedra	phosphorus	Two ZrO6 octahedra and three tetrahedra sta tistically occupied by vanadium and phosphorus atoms ( and the small cavity shaped like a trigonal prism between the octahedra ) form a topological unit of the framework , a - lantern - ( Fig. 6a ) .
ZrO6	octahedra	Two ZrO6 octahedra and three tetrahedra sta tistically occupied by vanadium and phosphorus atoms ( and the small cavity shaped like a trigonal prism between the octahedra ) form a topological unit of the framework , a - lantern - ( Fig. 6a ) .
Sodium zirconium arsenate phosphates	NaZr2(AsO4)x(PO4)(3-x)	Sodium zirconium arsenate phosphates NaZr2(AsO4)x(PO4)(3-x) were synthesized by precipitation technique and studied by X-ray diffraction and IR spectroscopy .
Sodium zirconium arsenate phosphates	precipitation technique	Sodium zirconium arsenate phosphates NaZr2(AsO4)x(PO4)(3-x) were synthesized by precipitation technique and studied by X-ray diffraction and IR spectroscopy .
NaZr2(AsO4)x(PO4)(3-x)	X-ray diffraction	Sodium zirconium arsenate phosphates NaZr2(AsO4)x(PO4)(3-x) were synthesized by precipitation technique and studied by X-ray diffraction and IR spectroscopy .
NaZr2(AsO4)x(PO4)(3-x)	continuous substitution solid solutions	In the series of NaZr2(AsO4)x(PO4)(3-x) , continuous substitution solid solutions are formed with the mineral kosnarite structure .
Fe2O3 +	dissolved	When a Fe2O3 + MgO mixture is dissolved in a melt with Na / P = 1 ( Fe / P = 0.15 , Fe / Mg = 1 ) , homogenization takes about 1 h .
MgO	dissolved	When a Fe2O3 + MgO mixture is dissolved in a melt with Na / P = 1 ( Fe / P = 0.15 , Fe / Mg = 1 ) , homogenization takes about 1 h .
dissolved	Na / P = 1	When a Fe2O3 + MgO mixture is dissolved in a melt with Na / P = 1 ( Fe / P = 0.15 , Fe / Mg = 1 ) , homogenization takes about 1 h .
dissolved	Fe / P = 0.15	When a Fe2O3 + MgO mixture is dissolved in a melt with Na / P = 1 ( Fe / P = 0.15 , Fe / Mg = 1 ) , homogenization takes about 1 h .
dissolved	homogenization	When a Fe2O3 + MgO mixture is dissolved in a melt with Na / P = 1 ( Fe / P = 0.15 , Fe / Mg = 1 ) , homogenization takes about 1 h .
phosphate crystallization	Fe / P = 0.15 or 0.3	We have studied general trends of phosphate crystallization from Na2O P2O5 - Fe2O3 - MIIO(MII = Mg , Ni ) high temperature solutions at Na / P = 1 - 1.4 , M / Fe = 1 , and Fe / P = 0.15 or 0.3 , and identified the stability regions of the phosphates Na4MIIFe(PO4)3 ( MII = Mg , Ni ) , NaFeP2O7 , and Na2NiP2O7 .
phosphate crystallization	Na / P = 1 - 1.4	We have studied general trends of phosphate crystallization from Na2O P2O5 - Fe2O3 - MIIO(MII = Mg , Ni ) high temperature solutions at Na / P = 1 - 1.4 , M / Fe = 1 , and Fe / P = 0.15 or 0.3 , and identified the stability regions of the phosphates Na4MIIFe(PO4)3 ( MII = Mg , Ni ) , NaFeP2O7 , and Na2NiP2O7 .
dissolves	Fe / P = 0.15	Our results for the Na2O - P2O5 - Fe2O3 - MIIO ( MII = Mg , Ni ) systems demonstrate that , under isothermal conditions ( 1000 <nUm> ) , a mixture of polyvalent metal oxides dissolves in sodium phosphate melts in 1 - 2 h at Fe / P = 0.15 and in 2 - 4 h at Fe / P = 0.3 .
Na2O - P2O5 - Fe2O3 - MIIO	Ni	Our results for the Na2O - P2O5 - Fe2O3 - MIIO ( MII = Mg , Ni ) systems demonstrate that , under isothermal conditions ( 1000 <nUm> ) , a mixture of polyvalent metal oxides dissolves in sodium phosphate melts in 1 - 2 h at Fe / P = 0.15 and in 2 - 4 h at Fe / P = 0.3 .
metal oxides	sodium phosphate melts	Our results for the Na2O - P2O5 - Fe2O3 - MIIO ( MII = Mg , Ni ) systems demonstrate that , under isothermal conditions ( 1000 <nUm> ) , a mixture of polyvalent metal oxides dissolves in sodium phosphate melts in 1 - 2 h at Fe / P = 0.15 and in 2 - 4 h at Fe / P = 0.3 .
isothermal conditions	dissolves	Our results for the Na2O - P2O5 - Fe2O3 - MIIO ( MII = Mg , Ni ) systems demonstrate that , under isothermal conditions ( 1000 <nUm> ) , a mixture of polyvalent metal oxides dissolves in sodium phosphate melts in 1 - 2 h at Fe / P = 0.15 and in 2 - 4 h at Fe / P = 0.3 .
NASICON type phosphates	Na4Fe2+Fe3+(PO4)3	The O-P-O bond angles lie in the range 106.051 <nUm> to 113.772 <nUm> , typical of NASICON type phosphates ( 106.9(3) <nUm> - 112.1(3) <nUm> in Na4Fe2+Fe3+(PO4)3 and 106.11(8) <nUm> - 112.11(8) <nUm> in Na4NiFe(PO4)3 ) .
NASICON type phosphates	Na4NiFe(PO4)3	The O-P-O bond angles lie in the range 106.051 <nUm> to 113.772 <nUm> , typical of NASICON type phosphates ( 106.9(3) <nUm> - 112.1(3) <nUm> in Na4Fe2+Fe3+(PO4)3 and 106.11(8) <nUm> - 112.11(8) <nUm> in Na4NiFe(PO4)3 ) .
O-P-O bond angles	NASICON type phosphates	The O-P-O bond angles lie in the range 106.051 <nUm> to 113.772 <nUm> , typical of NASICON type phosphates ( 106.9(3) <nUm> - 112.1(3) <nUm> in Na4Fe2+Fe3+(PO4)3 and 106.11(8) <nUm> - 112.11(8) <nUm> in Na4NiFe(PO4)3 ) .
analogous phosphates	Na4Fe2+Fe3+(PO4)3	The P-O bond lengths in the PO4 tetrahedra lie in the range 1.554 - 1.57 and slightly exceed those in the analogous phosphates Na4Fe2+Fe3+(PO4)3 ( d = 1.533(6) - 1.538(6) ) and Na4NiFe(PO4)3 ( d = 1.533(6)
(Mn/Fe)2(PO4)3	(Mn/Fe)O6 octahedron	The [ (Mn/Fe)2(PO4)3 ] framework is built up from an (Mn/Fe)O6 octahedron ( site symmetry 3 .
(Mn/Fe)2(PO4)3	site symmetry 3	The [ (Mn/Fe)2(PO4)3 ] framework is built up from an (Mn/Fe)O6 octahedron ( site symmetry 3 .
Na(2)-O8	O atoms	The Na(1)-O6 and Na(2)-O8 polyhedra share faces defined by three O atoms .
Na(2)-O8	polyhedra	The Na(1)-O6 and Na(2)-O8 polyhedra share faces defined by three O atoms .
solid solution	flux method	The solid solution , sodium [ iron(III) / manganese(II) ] tris(orthophosphate) , Na3.4Mn0.4Fe1.6(PO4)3 , was obtained using a flux method .
sodium [ iron(III) / manganese(II) ] tris(orthophosphate)	flux method	The solid solution , sodium [ iron(III) / manganese(II) ] tris(orthophosphate) , Na3.4Mn0.4Fe1.6(PO4)3 , was obtained using a flux method .
NO2BF4	acetonitrile	The removal of sodium from this structure and the concomitant oxidation of Ti3+ to Ti4+ could be chemically driven by reacting Na3TiP3O9N with NO2BF4 in acetonitrile .
oxidation	Ti4+	The removal of sodium from this structure and the concomitant oxidation of Ti3+ to Ti4+ could be chemically driven by reacting Na3TiP3O9N with NO2BF4 in acetonitrile .
Na3Nd(PO4) 2	sodium	The structural analysis of Na3Nd(PO4) 2 shows that its structure can be derived from that of glaserite K3Na(S04) 2 with an order between the sodium and neodymium atoms .
Na3Nd(PO4) 2	K3Na(S04) 2	The structural analysis of Na3Nd(PO4) 2 shows that its structure can be derived from that of glaserite K3Na(S04) 2 with an order between the sodium and neodymium atoms .
Na3Nd(PO4) 2	neodymium atoms	The structural analysis of Na3Nd(PO4) 2 shows that its structure can be derived from that of glaserite K3Na(S04) 2 with an order between the sodium and neodymium atoms .
Na3Nd(PO4) 2	sodium	The structural analysis of Na3Nd(PO4) 2 shows that its structure can be derived from that of glaserite K3Na(S04) 2 with an order between the sodium and neodymium atoms .
Na3Nd(PO4) 2	K3Na(S04) 2	The structural analysis of Na3Nd(PO4) 2 shows that its structure can be derived from that of glaserite K3Na(S04) 2 with an order between the sodium and neodymium atoms .
sultant material	sodium	There sultant material was washed in water to remove the excess sodium and phosphorus oxides .
sodium	Na2 site	The small excess of sodium ( 0.11 atoms per formula unit ) is located in the Na2 site , which is a poorly constrained , irregular site at a general position .
irregular site	general position	The small excess of sodium ( 0.11 atoms per formula unit ) is located in the Na2 site , which is a poorly constrained , irregular site at a general position .
AZr2(AsO4)3	M1 sites	For AZr2(AsO4)3 ( A = Na , K ) , the increase of ch when sodium is replaced by potassium in M1 sites , located in the ribbons along this axis
potassium	M1 sites	For AZr2(AsO4)3 ( A = Na , K ) , the increase of ch when sodium is replaced by potassium in M1 sites , located in the ribbons along this axis
sodium	ZrO6 octahedra	The sodium is at the centre of the an tiprism located between tow ZrO6 octahedra .
conductivity	sodium	hese results show that the maximum of conductivity at x = 2 can be rationalized in terms of the sodium - sodium interactions .
sodium	interactions	hese results show that the maximum of conductivity at x = 2 can be rationalized in terms of the sodium - sodium interactions .
conductivity	x = 2	hese results show that the maximum of conductivity at x = 2 can be rationalized in terms of the sodium - sodium interactions .
shallow potential	mid-Na site	Consequently , the successive sodium jumps between sites resulting in the static lattice potential , Na ( l ) Na(2) Na ( l ) , via the shallow potential mid-Na site imply a breathing like movement of the framework in perfect agreement with the dynamic tetrahedra disorder observed in these crystals .
sodium jumps	static lattice potential	Consequently , the successive sodium jumps between sites resulting in the static lattice potential , Na ( l ) Na(2) Na ( l ) , via the shallow potential mid-Na site imply a breathing like movement of the framework in perfect agreement with the dynamic tetrahedra disorder observed in these crystals .
dynamic tetrahedra 	crystals	Consequently , the successive sodium jumps between sites resulting in the static lattice potential , Na ( l ) Na(2) Na ( l ) , via the shallow potential mid-Na site imply a breathing like movement of the framework in perfect agreement with the dynamic tetrahedra disorder observed in these crystals .
Zr4+ ion	octahedral	In this work , the Zr4+ ion was chosen because it is stable in octahedral coordination and because zirconium oxides are not reduced by molten sodium .
zirconium oxides	molten sodium	In this work , the Zr4+ ion was chosen because it is stable in octahedral coordination and because zirconium oxides are not reduced by molten sodium .
sodium	empty compound	The introduction of sodium in the cages induces only a small variation of the volume of the unit cell compared to that of the empty compound .
volume	unit cell	The introduction of sodium in the cages induces only a small variation of the volume of the unit cell compared to that of the empty compound .
Na0.sNb2P3O12	nasicon frammework	These results clearly show that Na0.sNb2P3O12 has a nasicon frammework very similar to that obtained for the empty phosphate Nb2P3O12 ( 14 ) , with sodium located in the spacious cages formed by the PO4 tetrahedra and the NbO6 octahedra ( Fig. 1 ) .
Na0.sNb2P3O12	Nb2P3O12	These results clearly show that Na0.sNb2P3O12 has a nasicon frammework very similar to that obtained for the empty phosphate Nb2P3O12 ( 14 ) , with sodium located in the spacious cages formed by the PO4 tetrahedra and the NbO6 octahedra ( Fig. 2 ) .
sodium	PO4 tetrahedra	These results clearly show that Na0.sNb2P3O12 has a nasicon frammework very similar to that obtained for the empty phosphate Nb2P3O12 ( 14 ) , with sodium located in the spacious cages formed by the PO4 tetrahedra and the NbO6 octahedra ( Fig. 3 ) .
Na0.sNb2P3O12	empty phosphate	These results clearly show that Na0.sNb2P3O12 has a nasicon frammework very similar to that obtained for the empty phosphate Nb2P3O12 ( 14 ) , with sodium located in the spacious cages formed by the PO4 tetrahedra and the NbO6 octahedra ( Fig. 6 ) .
sodium	NaxNb2P3O12	It is worth pointing out that the intercalation rate of sodium x , in NaxNb2P3O12 is rather low compared of other nasicon oxides , for which is generally equal or greater than one .
NaxNb2P3O12	nasicon oxides	It is worth pointing out that the intercalation rate of sodium x , in NaxNb2P3O12 is rather low compared of other nasicon oxides , for which is generally equal or greater than one .
intercalation rate	NaxNb2P3O12	It is worth pointing out that the intercalation rate of sodium x , in NaxNb2P3O12 is rather low compared of other nasicon oxides , for which is generally equal or greater than one .
occupancy factor	sodium	Subsequent refinements including the occupancy factor of sodium led to R = 0.0292 , Rw = 0.0335 for the coordinates of table 2 and to the formula Na0.5Nb2P3O12 confirmed by microprobe analysis .
sodium	Na0.5Nb2P3O12	Subsequent refinements including the occupancy factor of sodium led to R = 0.0292 , Rw = 0.0335 for the coordinates of table 2 and to the formula Na0.5Nb2P3O12 confirmed by microprobe analysis .
Na0.5Nb2P3O12	microprobe analysis	Subsequent refinements including the occupancy factor of sodium led to R = 0.0292 , Rw = 0.0335 for the coordinates of table 2 and to the formula Na0.5Nb2P3O12 confirmed by microprobe analysis .
sodium	amorphous material	The surface becomes negatively charged , and sodium metal bubbles out of the crystallites converting them to amorphous material .
sodium	crystallites	The surface becomes negatively charged , and sodium metal bubbles out of the crystallites converting them to amorphous material .
negatively charged	amorphous material	The surface becomes negatively charged , and sodium metal bubbles out of the crystallites converting them to amorphous material .
sodium	available sites	The sodium , where present in amounts of more than 1 mole , tends to distribute itself rather evenly over the available sites .
sodium	Na(1)	As previously observed ( 14 ) for the first crystal structure determination of the NASICON , further calculations reveal , for crystals in the composition range 2 < x < 2.4 , the occupation of a third sodium position within the conduction path , approximately halfway between ideal Na(1) and Na(2) positions ( 1.8 from each one ) .
crystal structure	conduction path	As previously observed ( 14 ) for the first crystal structure determination of the NASICON , further calculations reveal , for crystals in the composition range 2 < x < 2.4 , the occupation of a third sodium position within the conduction path , approximately halfway between ideal Na(1) and Na(2) positions ( 1.8 from each one ) .
sodium	lattice potential	Consequently , the successive sodium jumps between sites resulting in the static lattice potential , Na(1) -> Na(2) -> Na(1) , via the shallow potential mid-Na site imply a breathing like movement of the framework in perfect agreement with the dynamic tetrahedra disorder observed in these crystals ( 13 ) .
successive sodium jumps	Na(1)	Consequently , the successive sodium jumps between sites resulting in the static lattice potential , Na(1) -> Na(2) -> Na(1) , via the shallow potential mid-Na site imply a breathing like movement of the framework in perfect agreement with the dynamic tetrahedra disorder observed in these crystals ( 13 ) .
dynamic tetrahedra	crystals	Consequently , the successive sodium jumps between sites resulting in the static lattice potential , Na(1) -> Na(2) -> Na(1) , via the shallow potential mid-Na site imply a breathing like movement of the framework in perfect agreement with the dynamic tetrahedra disorder observed in these crystals ( 13 ) .
Na(1)	mid-Na site	Consequently , the successive sodium jumps between sites resulting in the static lattice potential , Na(1) -> Na(2) -> Na(1) , via the shallow potential mid-Na site imply a breathing like movement of the framework in perfect agreement with the dynamic tetrahedra disorder observed in these crystals ( 13 ) .
temperature	sodium	In the investigated temperature range , small changes are observed in the sodium distribution with the variation of temperature .
temperature range	sodium	In the investigated temperature range , small changes are observed in the sodium distribution with the variation of temperature .
Zr atoms	Na+ - Zr4+	Zr atoms are displaced from the center of the octahedron due to the Na+ - Zr4+ repulsions .
octahedron	Na+ - Zr4+	Zr atoms are displaced from the center of the octahedron due to the Na+ - Zr4+ repulsions .
Na+ - Zr4+	repulsions	Zr atoms are displaced from the center of the octahedron due to the Na+ - Zr4+ repulsions .
Patterson map	Zr atoms	A strong peak at ( 0 , 0 , 0.29 ) in the Patterson map was assumed to represent an interaction between the Zr atoms .
interaction	Zr atoms	A strong peak at ( 0 , 0 , 0.29 ) in the Patterson map was assumed to represent an interaction between the Zr atoms .
unit cell	Zr atoms	The second half of the unit cell is a similar sheet with Zr atoms at b m = 0.75 instead of b m = 0.25 and displaced Cm / 2 , as indicated in Fig.2 .
agglomerates wich	Se	The flower like agglomerates wich are mainly composed of Se indicate the presence of V poor Tl selenide within the material exhibiting a homoqeneous morphology before deintercalation .
agglomerates wich	homoqeneous morphology	The flower like agglomerates wich are mainly composed of Se indicate the presence of V poor Tl selenide within the material exhibiting a homoqeneous morphology before deintercalation .
rhombohedral NASICON structure	Na+ ions	In the rhombohedral NASICON structure , the Na+ ions occupy two different sites when x > 0 .
Na+ ions	sites	In the rhombohedral NASICON structure , the Na+ ions occupy two different sites when x > 0 .
hopping distance	Na+ ions	The change in lattice size directly influenced the size of the pathway for the Na+ conduction and the hopping distance of the Na+ ions to the next vacancy .
pathway	Na+ ions	The change in lattice size directly influenced the size of the pathway for the Na+ conduction and the hopping distance of the Na+ ions to the next vacancy .
lattice size	Na+ ions	The change in lattice size directly influenced the size of the pathway for the Na+ conduction and the hopping distance of the Na+ ions to the next vacancy .
triangle	Na+ ions	Furthermore , the influence of the size of the smallest triangle of oxygen atoms through which the Na+ ions have to ump , assumed as the bottleneck for diffusion , was validated for this solid solution and other NASICON materials found in the literature .
triangle	oxygen atoms	Furthermore , the influence of the size of the smallest triangle of oxygen atoms through which the Na+ ions have to ump , assumed as the bottleneck for diffusion , was validated for this solid solution and other NASICON materials found in the literature .
Na+ ions	solid solution	Furthermore , the influence of the size of the smallest triangle of oxygen atoms through which the Na+ ions have to ump , assumed as the bottleneck for diffusion , was validated for this solid solution and other NASICON materials found in the literature .
hopping distance	Na+ ions	An increasing hopping distance for the Na+ ions is not favorable and leads to a high activation energy .
hopping distance	high activation energy	An increasing hopping distance for the Na+ ions is not favorable and leads to a high activation energy .
Na+ ions	M = Ti	Thus , the substitution of M(IV) by In(III) with the subsequent insertion of extra Na+ ions expands the framework anisotropically and especially in the phases with less free volume , i.e. , M = Ti and Sn .
M(IV)	In(III)	Thus , the substitution of M(IV) by In(III) with the subsequent insertion of extra Na+ ions expands the framework anisotropically and especially in the phases with less free volume , i.e. , M = Ti and Sn .
isotropic temperature factors	Na+ ions	Both analyses gave high isotropic temperature factors for the Na+ ions , indicating that these ions are mobile .
cr	Na+ ions	The fact that cr is a maximum near x = 2,2 is compatible with electrostatic repulsions between Na+ ions forcing displacement toward the bottleneck positions , thus contributing to the large debye Waller factor .
electrostatic repulsions	Na+ ions	The fact that cr is a maximum near x = 2,2 is compatible with electrostatic repulsions between Na+ ions forcing displacement toward the bottleneck positions , thus contributing to the large debye Waller factor .
Na+ ions	bottleneck positions	The fact that cr is a maximum near x = 2,2 is compatible with electrostatic repulsions between Na+ ions forcing displacement toward the bottleneck positions , thus contributing to the large debye Waller factor .
Na+ ions	two dimensional motion	( 5 ) In B-alumina , the Na+ ions are constrained to two dimensional motion ; in Na3ZroSioPO12 they move in tl ~ ree dimensions and the Na site density is twice as large : 1f.1 vs 5.57 x 1021 cm .
Na+ ions	Na3ZroSioPO12	( 5 ) In B-alumina , the Na+ ions are constrained to two dimensional motion ; in Na3ZroSioPO12 they move in tl ~ ree dimensions and the Na site density is twice as large : 1f.1 vs 5.57 x 1021 cm .
Na site	density	( 5 ) In B-alumina , the Na+ ions are constrained to two dimensional motion ; in Na3ZroSioPO12 they move in tl ~ ree dimensions and the Na site density is twice as large : 1f.1 vs 5.57 x 1021 cm .
Na+ ions	Na4Zr2Si3O12	In order to gain more insight into the behavior of the mobile , partly disordered Na+ ions in the rigid framework host [Zr2Si3O12]4- , the crystal structure of Na4Zr2Si3O12 was reinvestigated at RT , 300 , and 620 <nUm> .
crystal structure	Na4Zr2Si3O12	In order to gain more insight into the behavior of the mobile , partly disordered Na+ ions in the rigid framework host [Zr2Si3O12]4- , the crystal structure of Na4Zr2Si3O12 was reinvestigated at RT , 300 , and 620 <nUm> .
Na+ ions	zirconium sites	Further we might expect that the Na+ ions in the zirconium sites are nonconducting .
zirconium sites	nonconducting	Further we might expect that the Na+ ions in the zirconium sites are nonconducting .
Na+ ions	nonconducting	Further we might expect that the Na+ ions in the zirconium sites are nonconducting .
Zr4+ ions	Na+ ions	This results in a complicated homogeneity range with general formula , with the substitution of a part of the Zr4+ ions by Na+ ions [ 2 , 3 ] , and in addition with a large vitreous domain [ 4 , 5 ] .
[2(ZrO6-3(MO4))]	Na+ ions	These [2(ZrO6-3(MO4))] basic units are packed in a quasi-cubic framework which defines a lattice of intersecting channels where the Na+ ions are localized .
intersecting channels	Na+ ions	These [2(ZrO6-3(MO4))] basic units are packed in a quasi-cubic framework which defines a lattice of intersecting channels where the Na+ ions are localized .
Na(2)	Na+ ions	All the Na(2) triplet positions are equivalent , having each two Na+ ions and one vacancy .
Na(2)	triplet positions	All the Na(2) triplet positions are equivalent , having each two Na+ ions and one vacancy .
La-	sodium zirconium phosphate	Thus , refinement of powder X-ray diffraction data shows that the solid solutions of La- , Ce- , and Sesubstituted sodium zirconium phosphate ( NZP ) prepared at 1250 <nUm> crystallize in the rhombohedral ( space group R3-c ) structure and do not exhibit any phase transition .
Ce-	sodium zirconium phosphate	Thus , refinement of powder X-ray diffraction data shows that the solid solutions of La- , Ce- , and Sesubstituted sodium zirconium phosphate ( NZP ) prepared at 1250 <nUm> crystallize in the rhombohedral ( space group R3-c ) structure and do not exhibit any phase transition .
sodium zirconium phosphate	rhombohedral	Thus , refinement of powder X-ray diffraction data shows that the solid solutions of La- , Ce- , and Sesubstituted sodium zirconium phosphate ( NZP ) prepared at 1250 <nUm> crystallize in the rhombohedral ( space group R3-c ) structure and do not exhibit any phase transition .
sodium zirconium phosphate	NZP	Thus , refinement of powder X-ray diffraction data shows that the solid solutions of La- , Ce- , and Sesubstituted sodium zirconium phosphate ( NZP ) prepared at 1250 <nUm> crystallize in the rhombohedral ( space group R3-c ) structure and do not exhibit any phase transition .
powder X-ray diffraction	sodium zirconium phosphate	Thus , refinement of powder X-ray diffraction data shows that the solid solutions of La- , Ce- , and Sesubstituted sodium zirconium phosphate ( NZP ) prepared at 1250 <nUm> crystallize in the rhombohedral ( space group R3-c ) structure and do not exhibit any phase transition .
absorption bands	stretching asymmetric vibrations	The absorption bands in the range from 1280 to 1020 cm - 1 are assigned to the stretching asymmetric vibrations 3 , and bands in the range from 980 to 915 cm - 1 correspond to the stretching symmetric vibrations 1 of the PO43 ions .
absorption bands	stretching symmetric vibrations	The absorption bands in the range from 1280 to 1020 cm - 1 are assigned to the stretching asymmetric vibrations 3 , and bands in the range from 980 to 915 cm - 1 correspond to the stretching symmetric vibrations 1 of the PO43 ions .
Zr4+ cation	Se4+	the substitution of Zr4+ cation by tetravalent Se4+ and Ce4+ and trivalent La3+ cations causes elongation of the unit cell along c axis .
Zr4+ cation	Ce4+	the substitution of Zr4+ cation by tetravalent Se4+ and Ce4+ and trivalent La3+ cations causes elongation of the unit cell along c axis .
Zr4+ cation	La3+ cations	the substitution of Zr4+ cation by tetravalent Se4+ and Ce4+ and trivalent La3+ cations causes elongation of the unit cell along c axis .
Zr4+ cation	unit cell	the substitution of Zr4+ cation by tetravalent Se4+ and Ce4+ and trivalent La3+ cations causes elongation of the unit cell along c axis .
Se4+	unit cell	the substitution of Zr4+ cation by tetravalent Se4+ and Ce4+ and trivalent La3+ cations causes elongation of the unit cell along c axis .
solidification	LWR fuel reprocessing	NZP is a promising material for immobilization and solidification of lanthanum , cerium , and selenium from intermediate - level waste from LWR fuel reprocessing .
immobilization	LWR fuel reprocessing	NZP is a promising material for immobilization and solidification of lanthanum , cerium , and selenium from intermediate - level waste from LWR fuel reprocessing .
NZP	solidification	NZP is a promising material for immobilization and solidification of lanthanum , cerium , and selenium from intermediate - level waste from LWR fuel reprocessing .
NZP	immobilization	NZP is a promising material for immobilization and solidification of lanthanum , cerium , and selenium from intermediate - level waste from LWR fuel reprocessing .
lanthanum	LWR fuel reprocessing	NZP is a promising material for immobilization and solidification of lanthanum , cerium , and selenium from intermediate - level waste from LWR fuel reprocessing .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na - ions	It is shown that Na3TiP3O9N can reversibly cycle Na - ions in a manner suitable for secondary batteries , and that the volume changes on Naremoval are remarkably small ( < 1 % ) relative to other known Na - ion battery systems and offer unique advantages toward the development of Na - ion systems with extended lifetimes .
Na3TiP3O9N	reversibly cycle	It is shown that Na3TiP3O9N can reversibly cycle Na - ions in a manner suitable for secondary batteries , and that the volume changes on Naremoval are remarkably small ( < 1 % ) relative to other known Na - ion battery systems and offer unique advantages toward the development of Na - ion systems with extended lifetimes .
Na3TiP3O9N	secondary batteries	It is shown that Na3TiP3O9N can reversibly cycle Na - ions in a manner suitable for secondary batteries , and that the volume changes on Naremoval are remarkably small ( < 1 % ) relative to other known Na - ion battery systems and offer unique advantages toward the development of Na - ion systems with extended lifetimes .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na - ion battery systems	It is shown that Na3TiP3O9N can reversibly cycle Na - ions in a manner suitable for secondary batteries , and that the volume changes on Naremoval are remarkably small ( < 1 % ) relative to other known Na - ion battery systems and offer unique advantages toward the development of Na - ion systems with extended lifetimes .
thermal stability	Na3TiP3O9N	Excellent thermal stability is observed for both pristine Na3TiP3O9N and desodiated Na2TiP3O9N , suggesting that this phase can serve as a safe Na - ion battery electrode .
thermal stability	Na2TiP3O9N	Excellent thermal stability is observed for both pristine Na3TiP3O9N and desodiated Na2TiP3O9N , suggesting that this phase can serve as a safe Na - ion battery electrode .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na - ion battery electrode	Excellent thermal stability is observed for both pristine Na3TiP3O9N and desodiated Na2TiP3O9N , suggesting that this phase can serve as a safe Na - ion battery electrode .
Na3TiP3O9N	isotropic conductivities	Moreover , it is expected that further optimization of the general cubic framework of Na3TiP3O9N by chemical substitution will result in thermostable solid state electrolytes with isotropic conductivities that can function at temperatures near or just above room temperature .
Na3TiP3O9N	chemical substitution	Moreover , it is expected that further optimization of the general cubic framework of Na3TiP3O9N by chemical substitution will result in thermostable solid state electrolytes with isotropic conductivities that can function at temperatures near or just above room temperature .
chemical substitution	isotropic conductivities	Moreover , it is expected that further optimization of the general cubic framework of Na3TiP3O9N by chemical substitution will result in thermostable solid state electrolytes with isotropic conductivities that can function at temperatures near or just above room temperature .
thermostable solid state electrolytes	room temperature	Moreover , it is expected that further optimization of the general cubic framework of Na3TiP3O9N by chemical substitution will result in thermostable solid state electrolytes with isotropic conductivities that can function at temperatures near or just above room temperature .
ionic conductivity	Na3TiP3O9N	The measured room temperature ionic conductivity of Na3TiP3O9N is substantial ( 4 - 10(-)S / cm ) , though both the strong temperature dependence of Na ion thermal parameters and the observed activation energy of 0.54 eV suggest that much higher ionic conductivities can be achieved with minimal heating .
higher ionic conductivities	minimal heating	The measured room temperature ionic conductivity of Na3TiP3O9N is substantial ( 4 - 10(-)S / cm ) , though both the strong temperature dependence of Na ion thermal parameters and the observed activation energy of 0.54 eV suggest that much higher ionic conductivities can be achieved with minimal heating .
room temperature	ionic conductivity	The measured room temperature ionic conductivity of Na3TiP3O9N is substantial ( 4 - 10(-)S / cm ) , though both the strong temperature dependence of Na ion thermal parameters and the observed activation energy of 0.54 eV suggest that much higher ionic conductivities can be achieved with minimal heating .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na2Fe2P3O9N	3 : 1 Na3TiP3O9N should have much higher Na - ion mobility than 2 : 2 Na2Fe2P3O9N .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na - ion mobility	3 : 1 Na3TiP3O9N should have much higher Na - ion mobility than 2 : 2 Na2Fe2P3O9N .
Na ions	Na3TiP3O9N	It is demonstrated that Na ions are mobile at room temperature in the nitridophosphate compound Na3TiP3O9N , with a diffusion pathway that is calculated to be fully three dimensional and isotropic .
Na ions	diffusion pathway	It is demonstrated that Na ions are mobile at room temperature in the nitridophosphate compound Na3TiP3O9N , with a diffusion pathway that is calculated to be fully three dimensional and isotropic .
diffusion pathway	three dimensional	It is demonstrated that Na ions are mobile at room temperature in the nitridophosphate compound Na3TiP3O9N , with a diffusion pathway that is calculated to be fully three dimensional and isotropic .
Na ions	room temperature	It is demonstrated that Na ions are mobile at room temperature in the nitridophosphate compound Na3TiP3O9N , with a diffusion pathway that is calculated to be fully three dimensional and isotropic .
Na - ion batteries	Na3TiP3O9N	When used as a cathode in Na - ion batteries , Na3TiP3O9N has an average voltage of 2.7 V vs Na+ / Na and cycles with good reversibility through a mechanism that appears to be a single solid solution process without any intermediate plateaus .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na2TiP3O9N	When Na3TiP3O9N is fully desodiated to produce Na2TiP3O9N using a chemical oxidant , this framework still remains stable against oxidation in O2 up to at least 400 <nUm> .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na ions	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
CUBICON	Na ions	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
Na ions	transition metals	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
transition metals	V3+	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
transition metals	V4+	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
transition metals	V5+	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
transition metals	Cr3+	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
transition metals	oxidation states	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
Na3TiP3O9N	practical cathode	Although the capacity of Na3TiP3O9N is somewhat limited ( 74 mAh / g ) for practical cathode applications , this CUBICON framework contains two readily mobile Na ions ( and three Na ions in total ) per transition metal site , so the theoretical capacity of this framework can be doubled or even tripled if transition metals such as V3+ ( V4+ , V5+ ) or Cr3+ ( Cr4+ , Cr5+ , Cr6+ ) that can access more than two oxidation states are substituted for Ti3+ .
Na3TiP3O9N	SEM	The typical particle size of Na3TiP3O9N observed in SEM experiments and TEM experiments was on the order of 1 O 5 m in diameter and 0.5 m in the minimum dimension , suggesting that there is an opportunity to improve the electrochemical performance of this system if improved syntheses which reduce the particle size can be developed .
Na3TiP3O9N	TEM	The typical particle size of Na3TiP3O9N observed in SEM experiments and TEM experiments was on the order of 1 O 5 m in diameter and 0.5 m in the minimum dimension , suggesting that there is an opportunity to improve the electrochemical performance of this system if improved syntheses which reduce the particle size can be developed .
particle size	Na3TiP3O9N	The typical particle size of Na3TiP3O9N observed in SEM experiments and TEM experiments was on the order of 1 O 5 m in diameter and 0.5 m in the minimum dimension , suggesting that there is an opportunity to improve the electrochemical performance of this system if improved syntheses which reduce the particle size can be developed .
particle size	electrochemical performance	The typical particle size of Na3TiP3O9N observed in SEM experiments and TEM experiments was on the order of 1 O 5 m in diameter and 0.5 m in the minimum dimension , suggesting that there is an opportunity to improve the electrochemical performance of this system if improved syntheses which reduce the particle size can be developed .
Na3TiP3O9N	CUBICON	Na3TiP3O9N is shown to be the first member of the CUBICON family of nitridophosphate compounds that can effectively cycle Na ions reversibly at room temperature .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na ions	Na3TiP3O9N is shown to be the first member of the CUBICON family of nitridophosphate compounds that can effectively cycle Na ions reversibly at room temperature .
Na3TiP3O9N	CUBICON	The Na+ mobility within the Na3TiP3O9N CUBICON structure was first studied by dc polarization measurements on sintered pellets ( ~ 85 % dense ) of Na3TiP3O9N with gold blocking electrodes .
Na+ 	mobility	The Na+ mobility within the Na3TiP3O9N CUBICON structure was first studied by dc polarization measurements on sintered pellets ( ~ 85 % dense ) of Na3TiP3O9N with gold blocking electrodes .
sintered	85 % dense	The Na+ mobility within the Na3TiP3O9N CUBICON structure was first studied by dc polarization measurements on sintered pellets ( ~ 85 % dense ) of Na3TiP3O9N with gold blocking electrodes .
sintered	gold blocking electrodes	The Na+ mobility within the Na3TiP3O9N CUBICON structure was first studied by dc polarization measurements on sintered pellets ( ~ 85 % dense ) of Na3TiP3O9N with gold blocking electrodes .
dc polarization	sintered pellets	The Na+ mobility within the Na3TiP3O9N CUBICON structure was first studied by dc polarization measurements on sintered pellets ( ~ 85 % dense ) of Na3TiP3O9N with gold blocking electrodes .
Na+ mobility	Na3TiP3O9N	The Na+ mobility within the Na3TiP3O9N CUBICON structure was first studied by dc polarization measurements on sintered pellets ( ~ 85 % dense ) of Na3TiP3O9N with gold blocking electrodes .
ionic conductivity	Na3TiP3O9N	The current decayed by more than 98 % after relaxation , indicating that the ionic conductivity ( x = 4.2 - 10(-7)S / cm ) of pristine Na3TiP3O9N far exceeds its electronic conductivity ( x = 6.8 - 10(-9)S / cm ) at room temperature .
current decayed	relaxation	The current decayed by more than 98 % after relaxation , indicating that the ionic conductivity ( x = 4.2 - 10(-7)S / cm ) of pristine Na3TiP3O9N far exceeds its electronic conductivity ( x = 6.8 - 10(-9)S / cm ) at room temperature .
Na3TiP3O9N	solid state reaction	Na3TiP3O9N powders were prepared by a single step solid state reaction under flowing ammonia gas .
solid state reaction	ammonia gas	Na3TiP3O9N powders were prepared by a single step solid state reaction under flowing ammonia gas .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na - ion rate performance	Indeed , it was determined that Na3TiP3O9N can be very effectively cycled against a Na metal electrode using an electrolyte of 1 M NaClO4 in 3 : 7 EC / DMC with a promising Na - ion rate performance and reversibility with an average voltage of about 2.7 V vs Na+ / Na .
Na3TiP3O9N	NaClO4	Indeed , it was determined that Na3TiP3O9N can be very effectively cycled against a Na metal electrode using an electrolyte of 1 M NaClO4 in 3 : 7 EC / DMC with a promising Na - ion rate performance and reversibility with an average voltage of about 2.7 V vs Na+ / Na .
cycled	average voltage	Indeed , it was determined that Na3TiP3O9N can be very effectively cycled against a Na metal electrode using an electrolyte of 1 M NaClO4 in 3 : 7 EC / DMC with a promising Na - ion rate performance and reversibility with an average voltage of about 2.7 V vs Na+ / Na .
Na3TiP3O9N	Na metal electrode	Indeed , it was determined that Na3TiP3O9N can be very effectively cycled against a Na metal electrode using an electrolyte of 1 M NaClO4 in 3 : 7 EC / DMC with a promising Na - ion rate performance and reversibility with an average voltage of about 2.7 V vs Na+ / Na .
electrolyte	NaClO4	Indeed , it was determined that Na3TiP3O9N can be very effectively cycled against a Na metal electrode using an electrolyte of 1 M NaClO4 in 3 : 7 EC / DMC with a promising Na - ion rate performance and reversibility with an average voltage of about 2.7 V vs Na+ / Na .
Na3TiP3O9N	chemical desodiation	The complete oxidation of Na3TiP3O9N during chemical desodiation and the extremely small volume change of the open cubic framework of this phase during this process indicate that Na3TiP3O9N may be an excellent electrode material for Na - ion batteries .
oxidation	Na3TiP3O9N	The complete oxidation of Na3TiP3O9N during chemical desodiation and the extremely small volume change of the open cubic framework of this phase during this process indicate that Na3TiP3O9N may be an excellent electrode material for Na - ion batteries .
oxidation	volume change	The complete oxidation of Na3TiP3O9N during chemical desodiation and the extremely small volume change of the open cubic framework of this phase during this process indicate that Na3TiP3O9N may be an excellent electrode material for Na - ion batteries .
Na3TiP3O9N	electrode material	The complete oxidation of Na3TiP3O9N during chemical desodiation and the extremely small volume change of the open cubic framework of this phase during this process indicate that Na3TiP3O9N may be an excellent electrode material for Na - ion batteries .
Charge balance	Na3MP3O9N	Charge balance can also be achieved in 3 : 1 cubic sodium nitridophosphate compounds with a trivalent cation resulting in the general formula Na3MP3O9N .
sodium nitridophosphate compounds	Na3MP3O9N	Charge balance can also be achieved in 3 : 1 cubic sodium nitridophosphate compounds with a trivalent cation resulting in the general formula Na3MP3O9N .
nitrogen	PO3N	When nitrogen is present in the form of nitridophosphate ( PO3N ) groups , inductive effects allow high voltages suitable for cathodes to be realized .
PO3N	inductive effects	When nitrogen is present in the form of nitridophosphate ( PO3N ) groups , inductive effects allow high voltages suitable for cathodes to be realized .
Na ions	polyhedral chain	The open and flexible structure of NZP is identified as a novel storage medium for sodium ion batteries by allowing the highly mobile Na ions tunneling through the PO4 - ZrO6 polyhedral chain .
Na ions	PO4 -	The open and flexible structure of NZP is identified as a novel storage medium for sodium ion batteries by allowing the highly mobile Na ions tunneling through the PO4 - ZrO6 polyhedral chain .
NZP	sodium ion batteries	The open and flexible structure of NZP is identified as a novel storage medium for sodium ion batteries by allowing the highly mobile Na ions tunneling through the PO4 - ZrO6 polyhedral chain .
Na ions	conductivity	This value of resistance does not represent the motion of the Na ions in the sample and is therefore not taken into account in the calculation of the total conductivity .
resistance	Na ions	This value of resistance does not represent the motion of the Na ions in the sample and is therefore not taken into account in the calculation of the total conductivity .
Na ions	NVP	There are three Na ions per NVP unit , and only two of them can be extracted .
Na ions	18e site	Two removable Na ions are located at the 18e site , where 2 / 3 of the vacancy is orderly occupied .
three dimensional skeletal network	Zr06 octahedra	The structure consists of a three dimensional skeletal network of PO tetrahedra corner - sharing with Zr06 octahedra , the Na ions occupying a large octahedral site in the interstitial space .
Na ions	interstitial space	The structure consists of a three dimensional skeletal network of PO tetrahedra corner - sharing with Zr06 octahedra , the Na ions occupying a large octahedral site in the interstitial space .
diffusion path	propability density function	By single crystal diffraction experiments at high temperatures combined with ac conductivity measurements we can decide wether the bulk or the domain wall diffusion model is valid : If the bulk diffusion process is the main one and if the temperature is high enough , the diffusion path should be describable with the propability density function of the Na ions ( PDF ( r ) ) .
diffusion path	Na ions	By single crystal diffraction experiments at high temperatures combined with ac conductivity measurements we can decide wether the bulk or the domain wall diffusion model is valid : If the bulk diffusion process is the main one and if the temperature is high enough , the diffusion path should be describable with the propability density function of the Na ions ( PDF ( r ) ) .
propability density function	Na ions	By single crystal diffraction experiments at high temperatures combined with ac conductivity measurements we can decide wether the bulk or the domain wall diffusion model is valid : If the bulk diffusion process is the main one and if the temperature is high enough , the diffusion path should be describable with the propability density function of the Na ions ( PDF ( r ) ) .
single crystal diffraction experiments	high temperatures	By single crystal diffraction experiments at high temperatures combined with ac conductivity measurements we can decide wether the bulk or the domain wall diffusion model is valid : If the bulk diffusion process is the main one and if the temperature is high enough , the diffusion path should be describable with the propability density function of the Na ions ( PDF ( r ) ) .
conductivity	Na ions	However , if this conductivity exclusively corresponds to a diffusion mechanism of the Na ions along a path similar to that described in the NASICON compositions x = l .
diffusion mechanism	path	However , if this conductivity exclusively corresponds to a diffusion mechanism of the Na ions along a path similar to that described in the NASICON compositions x = l .
Na ions	NASICON	However , if this conductivity exclusively corresponds to a diffusion mechanism of the Na ions along a path similar to that described in the NASICON compositions x = l .
site	Na ions	The temperature factor of this site is rather high and this was interpreted as a hint for the mobility of the Na ions ( 14 ) .
mobility	Na ions	The temperature factor of this site is rather high and this was interpreted as a hint for the mobility of the Na ions ( 14 ) .
temperature factor	site	The temperature factor of this site is rather high and this was interpreted as a hint for the mobility of the Na ions ( 14 ) .
Na ions	interstitial space	The substitution of pS+ ions by ( Si4+ + Na + ) ions was attempted to introduce Na ions into other positions of the interstitial space , an appropriate preparation of SiO2 being added to the starting mix .
SiO2	mix	The substitution of pS+ ions by ( Si4+ + Na + ) ions was attempted to introduce Na ions into other positions of the interstitial space , an appropriate preparation of SiO2 being added to the starting mix .
pS+ ions	( Si4+ + Na + )	The substitution of pS+ ions by ( Si4+ + Na + ) ions was attempted to introduce Na ions into other positions of the interstitial space , an appropriate preparation of SiO2 being added to the starting mix .
Na ions	Na3Zr ~ Si ~ PO12	The structural evidence for displacement of Na ions toward bottleneck positions in Na3Zr ~ Si ~ PO12 indicates that this is the case , and indeed the transport properties at 30 <nUm> are comparable to those of the best .
bottleneck positions	Na3Zr ~ Si ~ PO12	The structural evidence for displacement of Na ions toward bottleneck positions in Na3Zr ~ Si ~ PO12 indicates that this is the case , and indeed the transport properties at 30 <nUm> are comparable to those of the best .
anisotropic thermal parameters	Na ions	This refinement converged smoothly and subsequently the anisotropic thermal parameters of the Na ions were refined .
refinement	anisotropic thermal parameters	This refinement converged smoothly and subsequently the anisotropic thermal parameters of the Na ions were refined .
joint probability density	Na ions	The conduction path involves both sodium sites and could be unambiguously derived from the joint probability density ( PDF ) of the Na ions .
conduction path	sodium sites	The conduction path involves both sodium sites and could be unambiguously derived from the joint probability density ( PDF ) of the Na ions .
NASICON	Na ions	In addition to the well known NASICON end nembers ( x = 0,3 ) Hong reported three cmpoonds ( table ( 13 ) ) without any Si content but with lack of the anisotropy and nagnitude of the temperature factors of the Na ions ( table IV ) are both extremely high ( fig.2 ) .
anisotropy	temperature factors	In addition to the well known NASICON end nembers ( x = 0,3 ) Hong reported three cmpoonds ( table ( 13 ) ) without any Si content but with lack of the anisotropy and nagnitude of the temperature factors of the Na ions ( table IV ) are both extremely high ( fig.2 ) .
Si content	temperature factors	In addition to the well known NASICON end nembers ( x = 0,3 ) Hong reported three cmpoonds ( table ( 13 ) ) without any Si content but with lack of the anisotropy and nagnitude of the temperature factors of the Na ions ( table IV ) are both extremely high ( fig.2 ) .
Charge balance	Na ions	Charge balance is established by Na ions located at two sites .
Na - ion conduction pathways	structure type	The 3D Na - ion conduction pathways , good sodium ionic conductivity , extremely small volume changes , high redox potential ( 0.6 V higher than equivalent Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couple of NASICON type Na3Ti2(PO4)3 cathodes ) , and good thermal stability make this structure type particularly attractive for rechargeable Na ion battery applications .
volume changes	structure type	The 3D Na - ion conduction pathways , good sodium ionic conductivity , extremely small volume changes , high redox potential ( 0.6 V higher than equivalent Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couple of NASICON type Na3Ti2(PO4)3 cathodes ) , and good thermal stability make this structure type particularly attractive for rechargeable Na ion battery applications .
sodium ionic conductivity	structure type	The 3D Na - ion conduction pathways , good sodium ionic conductivity , extremely small volume changes , high redox potential ( 0.6 V higher than equivalent Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couple of NASICON type Na3Ti2(PO4)3 cathodes ) , and good thermal stability make this structure type particularly attractive for rechargeable Na ion battery applications .
redox potential	structure type	The 3D Na - ion conduction pathways , good sodium ionic conductivity , extremely small volume changes , high redox potential ( 0.6 V higher than equivalent Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couple of NASICON type Na3Ti2(PO4)3 cathodes ) , and good thermal stability make this structure type particularly attractive for rechargeable Na ion battery applications .
NASICON type Na3Ti2(PO4)3 cathodes	rechargeable Na ion battery	The 3D Na - ion conduction pathways , good sodium ionic conductivity , extremely small volume changes , high redox potential ( 0.6 V higher than equivalent Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couple of NASICON type Na3Ti2(PO4)3 cathodes ) , and good thermal stability make this structure type particularly attractive for rechargeable Na ion battery applications .
Ti4+	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	Furthermore , the combination of the Mn3+ / Mn2+ and Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couples in Na3MnTi(PO4)3 would enable the symmetric battery to possess a high output voltage of approximately 1.4 V .
Ti3+	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	Furthermore , the combination of the Mn3+ / Mn2+ and Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couples in Na3MnTi(PO4)3 would enable the symmetric battery to possess a high output voltage of approximately 1.4 V .
redox couples	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	Furthermore , the combination of the Mn3+ / Mn2+ and Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couples in Na3MnTi(PO4)3 would enable the symmetric battery to possess a high output voltage of approximately 1.4 V .
redox couples	high output voltage	Furthermore , the combination of the Mn3+ / Mn2+ and Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couples in Na3MnTi(PO4)3 would enable the symmetric battery to possess a high output voltage of approximately 1.4 V .
symmetric battery	high output voltage	Furthermore , the combination of the Mn3+ / Mn2+ and Ti4+ / Ti3+ redox couples in Na3MnTi(PO4)3 would enable the symmetric battery to possess a high output voltage of approximately 1.4 V .
Ti4+	Al3+ cations	The cell parameter evolution along the series agrees with the substitution of larger Ti4+ by smaller Al3+ cations .
hierarchicalcarbon - coated	mesoporous nanowires	Wei et al. designed hierarchicalcarbon - coated m-LVP mesoporous nanowires that showed a high capacity of 117 mA h g at 10 <nUm> and excellent cycling stability of 80 % capacity retention over 3000 cycles at 5 <nUm> between 3 and 4.3 V vs Li / Li .
hierarchicalcarbon - coated	high capacity	Wei et al. designed hierarchicalcarbon - coated m-LVP mesoporous nanowires that showed a high capacity of 117 mA h g at 10 <nUm> and excellent cycling stability of 80 % capacity retention over 3000 cycles at 5 <nUm> between 3 and 4.3 V vs Li / Li .
carbon - coated	Li ions	Jian et al. prepared carbon - coated r-LVP , where two Li ions can be extracted and two more Li ions can be inserted into the structure , corresponding to V3 / V4 with a plateau at 3.75 V and V3 / V2 with an average potential of 1.75 V vs Li / Li , respectively .
carbon - coated	plateau	Jian et al. prepared carbon - coated r-LVP , where two Li ions can be extracted and two more Li ions can be inserted into the structure , corresponding to V3 / V4 with a plateau at 3.75 V and V3 / V2 with an average potential of 1.75 V vs Li / Li , respectively .
( Li , Na)NO3	drying	The final ion - exchange solid was washed repeatedly with distilled water to eliminate the ( Li , Na)NO3 compounds before drying overnight at 60 <nUm> .
ion - exchange	distilled water	The final ion - exchange solid was washed repeatedly with distilled water to eliminate the ( Li , Na)NO3 compounds before drying overnight at 60 <nUm> .
M3Zr2Si2POl2	Li	The situation is more complex for the series M3Zr2Si2POl2 , where M = Li , Ag , and K .
M3Zr2Si2POl2	K	The situation is more complex for the series M3Zr2Si2POl2 , where M = Li , Ag , and K .
Li ions	sites	Three Li ions occupy different lattice sites , where Li1 is located at the tetrahedral site , and Li2 and Li3 occupy different pseudotetrahedral sites .
Li1	tetrahedral site	Three Li ions occupy different lattice sites , where Li1 is located at the tetrahedral site , and Li2 and Li3 occupy different pseudotetrahedral sites .
Li2	pseudotetrahedral sites	Three Li ions occupy different lattice sites , where Li1 is located at the tetrahedral site , and Li2 and Li3 occupy different pseudotetrahedral sites .
Nitridophosphate systems	O2	Nitridophosphate systems have the potential for the loss of inert N2 rather than reactive O2 loss , potentially mitigating their reactivity with organic electrolytes .
Nitridophosphate systems	N2	Nitridophosphate systems have the potential for the loss of inert N2 rather than reactive O2 loss , potentially mitigating their reactivity with organic electrolytes .
O2	organic electrolytes	Nitridophosphate systems have the potential for the loss of inert N2 rather than reactive O2 loss , potentially mitigating their reactivity with organic electrolytes .
cycling capability	O2	Luo et al. further assembled LTP / Li2SO4 / LiFePO4 aqueous LIBs , which showed superior cycling capability after eliminating O2 .
LiFePO4	cycling capability	Luo et al. further assembled LTP / Li2SO4 / LiFePO4 aqueous LIBs , which showed superior cycling capability after eliminating O2 .
LTP	cycling capability	Luo et al. further assembled LTP / Li2SO4 / LiFePO4 aqueous LIBs , which showed superior cycling capability after eliminating O2 .
O2	coplanar	The four atoms in the O2 cluster are almost coplanar .
unit cell parameters	V5+	The unit cell parameters of the single phase samples in the series Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x with the M+ cation being the same smoothly increase with an increase in the content of V5+ ( rCN 4 = 0.355 ) , which is larger than P5+ ( rCN 4 = 0.17 ) .
Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x	M+ cation	The unit cell parameters of the single phase samples in the series Zr2(VO4)x(PO4)3 - x with the M+ cation being the same smoothly increase with an increase in the content of V5+ ( rCN 4 = 0.355 ) , which is larger than P5+ ( rCN 4 = 0.17 ) .
transition metals	Ti3+	Also , significantly higher voltages are expected when other trivalent transition metals are substituted for Ti3+ .
Na(1) sites	sixfold coordinated	The Na(1) sites are sixfold coordinated to the oxygen ions of three (Si,P)O4 tetrahedra above and below ( coordinate ( 0,0,0 ) ) , the Na(2) sites are also sixfold coordinated to oxygen ions of three coplanar (Si,P)O4 tetrahedra ( coordinate ( x,y,0.25 ) ) .
Na(1) sites	(Si,P)O4 tetrahedra	The Na(1) sites are sixfold coordinated to the oxygen ions of three (Si,P)O4 tetrahedra above and below ( coordinate ( 0,0,0 ) ) , the Na(2) sites are also sixfold coordinated to oxygen ions of three coplanar (Si,P)O4 tetrahedra ( coordinate ( x,y,0.25 ) ) .
sixfold coordinated	(Si,P)O4 tetrahedra	The Na(1) sites are sixfold coordinated to the oxygen ions of three (Si,P)O4 tetrahedra above and below ( coordinate ( 0,0,0 ) ) , the Na(2) sites are also sixfold coordinated to oxygen ions of three coplanar (Si,P)O4 tetrahedra ( coordinate ( x,y,0.25 ) ) .
Nasicon type structure	ZrO6	The basic unit of the Nasicon type structure is built up from two ( ZrO6 ) octahedra separated by three [(P,Si)O4] tetrahedra , with which they share corner oxygen ions .
ZrO6	octahedra	The basic unit of the Nasicon type structure is built up from two ( ZrO6 ) octahedra separated by three [(P,Si)O4] tetrahedra , with which they share corner oxygen ions .
Nasicon type structure	[(P,Si)O4] tetrahedra	The basic unit of the Nasicon type structure is built up from two ( ZrO6 ) octahedra separated by three [(P,Si)O4] tetrahedra , with which they share corner oxygen ions .
Na(1)	octahedron	In particular the regular Na(1) octahedron appears to be empty and strongly distorted ; the six distances from its center to oxygen ions being from 2.56 to 2.73 ( average 2.68 A ) .
conductivity	Na	The largest scatter of conductivity appears for compositions with one Na per formula unit .
sodium content	charge carriers	However , on the other hand it also can be interpreted as experimental uncertainty of the sodium content , because a very small change of charge carriers can cause a huge variation in conductivity .
charge carriers	Na sites	As the number of charge carriers increases , so too does the conductivity , until a maximum concentration is reached , corresponding either to the half - filled occupancy of the Na sites or a structural change resulting in a steric barrier .
conductivity	Na sites	As the number of charge carriers increases , so too does the conductivity , until a maximum concentration is reached , corresponding either to the half - filled occupancy of the Na sites or a structural change resulting in a steric barrier .
conductivity	steric barrier	As the number of charge carriers increases , so too does the conductivity , until a maximum concentration is reached , corresponding either to the half - filled occupancy of the Na sites or a structural change resulting in a steric barrier .
activation energy	charge carriers	Therefore , the activation energy has a much stronger impact on the conductivity than the number of charge carriers .
activation energy	conductivity	Therefore , the activation energy has a much stronger impact on the conductivity than the number of charge carriers .
Na content	charge carriers	a ) the change in the Na content and hence the increase in charge carriers .
charge carriers	conductivity	Increasing the amount of charge carriers increases the conductivity of the material as it was observed for compositions up to 3.4 mol Na per formula unit in the nominal stoichiometry .
conductivity	nominal stoichiometry	Increasing the amount of charge carriers increases the conductivity of the material as it was observed for compositions up to 3.4 mol Na per formula unit in the nominal stoichiometry .
conductivity	charge carriers	In NSSiPx , the maximal amount of Na per formula unit is 4 mol and the highest conductivity is achieved around 3.12 mol which represents a ratio of occupied Na sites over vacant Na sites of approximately 80 / 20 : the conductivity increases with the amount of charge carriers but at least 20 % of the charge carrier positions have to be vacant .
NSSiPx	Na	In NSSiPx , the maximal amount of Na per formula unit is 4 mol and the highest conductivity is achieved around 3.12 mol which represents a ratio of occupied Na sites over vacant Na sites of approximately 80 / 20 : the conductivity increases with the amount of charge carriers but at least 20 % of the charge carrier positions have to be vacant .
charge carriers	oxygen atoms	The distance between the charge carriers to the nearest oxygen atoms , however , seems to be more important .
charge carriers	conductivity	The increase in charge carriers led to an increase in conductivity until a maximum was reached , after which the ratio of the amount of charge carriers to vacancies was not favorable .
conductivity	vacancies	The increase in charge carriers led to an increase in conductivity until a maximum was reached , after which the ratio of the amount of charge carriers to vacancies was not favorable .
sodium	high ionic conductivity	In general , compositions with > = 2.5 mol sodium per formula unit show a high ionic conductivity between 2*10(-5) and 8*10(-3) S cm(-1) .
Si	Na3Sc2(PO4)3	Substituting Si in Na3Sc2(PO4)3 has two simultaneous impacts .
Si	tetrahedral position	Our observed mean P-O bond length of 1.525 A ( for a sample with some Si in the tetrahedral position ) is slightly longer than the 1.522 A value of Hong
P-O bond length	Si	Our observed mean P-O bond length of 1.525 A ( for a sample with some Si in the tetrahedral position ) is slightly longer than the 1.522 A value of Hong
Si	NASICON crystal	These results are compared with similar studies on a pure Si NASICON crystal at temperatures up to 933K where the same conduction mechanism is found .
NASICON crystal	temperatures	These results are compared with similar studies on a pure Si NASICON crystal at temperatures up to 933K where the same conduction mechanism is found .
Si	NASICON	Measurements on the pure Si end member of NASICON were carried out at room tanperatnre , 403K , 593K , 788K , and 933K ( table Ill ) .
NASICON	room tanperatnre	Measurements on the pure Si end member of NASICON were carried out at room tanperatnre , 403K , 593K , 788K , and 933K ( table Ill ) .
Si	high temperatures	The c axis of the pure Si compound is considerably smaller , even at high temperatures ( fig.6 ) .
Ge-	NASICONs	Ge- and Ti - based NASICONs have the highest activation energy and lowest conductivity , whereas Ta- , V- , Zr- , Sc- and Hf - based NASICONs with > 1.5 mol Si per formula unit have the lowest activation energy and highest conductivity .
Ti -	NASICONs	Ge- and Ti - based NASICONs have the highest activation energy and lowest conductivity , whereas Ta- , V- , Zr- , Sc- and Hf - based NASICONs with > 1.5 mol Si per formula unit have the lowest activation energy and highest conductivity .
NASICONs	Ta-	Ge- and Ti - based NASICONs have the highest activation energy and lowest conductivity , whereas Ta- , V- , Zr- , Sc- and Hf - based NASICONs with > 1.5 mol Si per formula unit have the lowest activation energy and highest conductivity .
NASICONs	V-	Ge- and Ti - based NASICONs have the highest activation energy and lowest conductivity , whereas Ta- , V- , Zr- , Sc- and Hf - based NASICONs with > 1.5 mol Si per formula unit have the lowest activation energy and highest conductivity .
NASICONs	Zr-	Ge- and Ti - based NASICONs have the highest activation energy and lowest conductivity , whereas Ta- , V- , Zr- , Sc- and Hf - based NASICONs with > 1.5 mol Si per formula unit have the lowest activation energy and highest conductivity .
NASICONs	highest activation energy	Ge- and Ti - based NASICONs have the highest activation energy and lowest conductivity , whereas Ta- , V- , Zr- , Sc- and Hf - based NASICONs with > 1.5 mol Si per formula unit have the lowest activation energy and highest conductivity .
NASICONs	lowest conductivity	Ge- and Ti - based NASICONs have the highest activation energy and lowest conductivity , whereas Ta- , V- , Zr- , Sc- and Hf - based NASICONs with > 1.5 mol Si per formula unit have the lowest activation energy and highest conductivity .
M cations	conductivity	Indeed , both the Na concentration and the size of the M cations determine the properties of a NASICON material and only when both parameters are simultaneously at the optimum value , the conductivity will be high .
Na concentration	conductivity	Indeed , both the Na concentration and the size of the M cations determine the properties of a NASICON material and only when both parameters are simultaneously at the optimum value , the conductivity will be high .
M cations	NASICON material	Indeed , both the Na concentration and the size of the M cations determine the properties of a NASICON material and only when both parameters are simultaneously at the optimum value , the conductivity will be high .
area T1	M cations	The area T1 increases with an increasing effective ionic radius of the M cations up to a value that is close to the optimal cationic radius of 0.72 A .
effective ionic radius	M cations	The area T1 increases with an increasing effective ionic radius of the M cations up to a value that is close to the optimal cationic radius of 0.72 A .
M cations	cationic radius	The area T1 increases with an increasing effective ionic radius of the M cations up to a value that is close to the optimal cationic radius of 0.72 A .
Li - ion cells	capacity	Among all rechargeable battery technologies , Li - ion cells have the largest energy density and output voltage today , but they have yet to be optimized in terms of capacity , safety and cost for use as stationary systems .
Li - ion cells	largest energy density	Among all rechargeable battery technologies , Li - ion cells have the largest energy density and output voltage today , but they have yet to be optimized in terms of capacity , safety and cost for use as stationary systems .
Li - ion cells	output voltage	Among all rechargeable battery technologies , Li - ion cells have the largest energy density and output voltage today , but they have yet to be optimized in terms of capacity , safety and cost for use as stationary systems .
rechargeable battery	Li - ion cells	Among all rechargeable battery technologies , Li - ion cells have the largest energy density and output voltage today , but they have yet to be optimized in terms of capacity , safety and cost for use as stationary systems .
conductivity	Na3Zr2Si2PO12	The conductivity of Na3Zr2Si2PO12 is 6.7*10(-4) S cm(-1) at room temperature and 0.2 S cm(-1) at 300 <nUm> .
conductivity	room temperature	The conductivity of Na3Zr2Si2PO12 is 6.7*10(-4) S cm(-1) at room temperature and 0.2 S cm(-1) at 300 <nUm> .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	LiN03	Accordingly , powders of NaZr2PQO 12 and Na3Zr2Si2PO12 were held for four hours in molten LiN03 , AgN03 , and KN3 , respectively .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	AgN03	Accordingly , powders of NaZr2PQO 12 and Na3Zr2Si2PO12 were held for four hours in molten LiN03 , AgN03 , and KN3 , respectively .
monoclinic	Na3Zr2Si2PO12	Attempts to grow single crystal Na Zr2Si ~ ' 2POI2 failed , but the distortion of the network is small enough that the network configuration in monoclinic Na3Zr2Si2PO12 could be deduced from powder data .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	8-alumina	In closing , it is interesting to compare the properties of Na3Zr2Si2PO12 investigated here with those of 8-alumina .
B-alumina	anisotropic thermal expansion	( 6 ) Whereas B-alumina has an anisotropic thermal expansion , pseudocubic Na3Zr2Si2PO12 may have a nearly isotropic thermal expansion , thus minimizing thermally induced stresses at grain boundaries of a ceramic membrane .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	isotropic thermal expansion	( 6 ) Whereas B-alumina has an anisotropic thermal expansion , pseudocubic Na3Zr2Si2PO12 may have a nearly isotropic thermal expansion , thus minimizing thermally induced stresses at grain boundaries of a ceramic membrane .
isotropic thermal expansion	thermally	( 6 ) Whereas B-alumina has an anisotropic thermal expansion , pseudocubic Na3Zr2Si2PO12 may have a nearly isotropic thermal expansion , thus minimizing thermally induced stresses at grain boundaries of a ceramic membrane .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	equilibrium phase	It is quite possible , therefore , that the Na3Zr2Si2PO12 structure of Boilot et al. , represents a equilibrium phase reached after a long period of heating , while our material , prepared over a much shorter period , is a non-equilibrium phase .
Na(2) sites	Na3Zr2Si2PO12	Moreover , the occupancies of the Na(1) and Na(2) sites reported for Na3Zr2Si2PO12 ( 40 % and 68 % ) are essentially opposite to what we find for Na2.5Zr1.8Sc0.2Si1.3P1.7O12 .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	sodium atom	By contrast in Na3Zr2Si2PO12 the sodium atom has moved to the midpoint of the channel , relieving the unfavorable steric interaction with O(1) .
Na(1) and Na(2) sites	Na3Zr2Si2PO12	Moreover , the occupancies of the Na(1) and Na(2) sites reported for Na3Zr2Si2PO12 ( 40 % and 68 % ) are essentially opposite to what we find ( cf. table 6 ) for Na2.5Zr1.8Sc0.2Si1.3P1.7O12 .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	rhombohedral structure	More recently , Boilot et al. found in a variable temperature single crystal study of the stoichiometric NASICON , Na3Zr2Si2PO12 , an extra sodium position located in the conduction channel between Na(1) and Na(2) of the high temperature ( 350 <nUm> ) rhombohedral structure .
Na3Zr2Si2PO12	Na(2)	More recently , Boilot et al. found in a variable temperature single crystal study of the stoichiometric NASICON , Na3Zr2Si2PO12 , an extra sodium position located in the conduction channel between Na(1) and Na(2) of the high temperature ( 350 <nUm> ) rhombohedral structure .
angles between corner linked polyhedra defined by Zr-O-P linkage in NZP	collapse of cavities	Similar to RbTi2(PO4)3 , angles between corner linked polyhedra defined by Zr-O-P linkage in NZP might change significantly leading to a collapse of cavities around Na cations increasing their coordination from six to twelve .
alkali cation	phase I of NZP	Hence , substitution of smaller alkali cation increases the stability of phase I of NZP up to 5 GPa when compared to RbTi2(PO4)3 or RbZr2(PO4)3 that undergo phase transformations at much lower pressures .
Na1 - Na2 electrostatic repulsions	Na cations	However , in the samples analyzed Na1 - Na2 electrostatic repulsions must favor dispersion of Na cations in conduction networks Hence , full occupancy of Na1 sites can not likely be produced .
Na cations	Na1 , Na2 , Na1	The analysis of the bond valence sum along different possible trajectories , has shown that the most probable conduction pathway for Na cations is Na1 , Na2 , Na1 in the analyzed compositions .
Crystallization in the NZP and SW structural types	LiZr2(PO4)3	Crystallization in the NZP and SW structural types is known for the phosphate LiZr2(PO4)3 ( x = 0 ) .
LiZr2(PO4)3	space group Rc	The LiZr2(PO4)3 sample synthesized at 1200 <nUm> has a rhombohedral unit cell symmetry ( space group Rc ) at a temperature of > 50 <nUm> .
LiZr2(PO4)3	rhombohedral unit cell symmetry	The LiZr2(PO4)3 sample synthesized at 1200 <nUm> has a rhombohedral unit cell symmetry ( space group Rc ) at a temperature of > 50 <nUm> .
M3Zr2Si2P012	space group	The situation is more complex for the series M3Zr2Si2P012 , where M = Li , Ag , and K , In the first place , only if M = Na is the space group monoclinic C2 / c .
MMo2P3O12	tunnel structure	In contrast to MMo2P3O12 ( M = Tl , Rb , K ) which adopt a tunnel structure and are built of Mo2O11 units , P2O7 groups and PO4 tetrahedra , the sodium compound has a markedly different structure and is composed of MoO6 octahedra , NaO6 trigonal antiprisms , and PO4 tetrahedra .
MMo2P3O12	Mo2O11 units	In contrast to MMo2P3O12 ( M = Tl , Rb , K ) which adopt a tunnel structure and are built of Mo2O11 units , P2O7 groups and PO4 tetrahedra , the sodium compound has a markedly different structure and is composed of MoO6 octahedra , NaO6 trigonal antiprisms , and PO4 tetrahedra .
Mo(lll)	MMoP2O7	The phosphates containing isolated Mo(lll) only have also been found in MMoP2O7 ( M = cs , Rb , K ) ( 13 ) and MoP3SiO11 ( 14 ) .
MMoP2O7	K	The phosphates containing isolated Mo(lll) only have also been found in MMoP2O7 ( M = cs , Rb , K ) ( 13 ) and MoP3SiO11 ( 14 ) .
phosphates	MoP3SiO11	The phosphates containing isolated Mo(lll) only have also been found in MMoP2O7 ( M = cs , Rb , K ) ( 13 ) and MoP3SiO11 ( 14 ) .
MMo2P3O12	K	The Mo(1V) phosphates MMo2P3O12 ( M = Tl , Rb , K ) have been unusual among molybdenum phosphates with respect to the corner sharing Mo2O11 units in their framework .
MMo2P3O12	M = Tl	The Mo(1V) phosphates MMo2P3O12 ( M = Tl , Rb , K ) have been unusual among molybdenum phosphates with respect to the corner sharing Mo2O11 units in their framework .
MMo2P3O12	Mo2O11 units	The Mo(1V) phosphates MMo2P3O12 ( M = Tl , Rb , K ) have been unusual among molybdenum phosphates with respect to the corner sharing Mo2O11 units in their framework .
MMo2P3O12	molybdenum phosphates	The Mo(1V) phosphates MMo2P3O12 ( M = Tl , Rb , K ) have been unusual among molybdenum phosphates with respect to the corner sharing Mo2O11 units in their framework .
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	sodium rich cathode	Na3MnTi(PO4)3 enables its utilization as both a sodium rich cathode and a sodium deficient anode for a symmetric sodium ion battery in the aqueous electrolyte .
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	sodium deficient anode	Na3MnTi(PO4)3 enables its utilization as both a sodium rich cathode and a sodium deficient anode for a symmetric sodium ion battery in the aqueous electrolyte .
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	symmetric sodium ion battery	Na3MnTi(PO4)3 enables its utilization as both a sodium rich cathode and a sodium deficient anode for a symmetric sodium ion battery in the aqueous electrolyte .
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	cathode	A symmetric sodium ion battery with an aqueous electrolyte is demonstrated ; it utilizes the NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 as both the anode and the cathode .
aqueous electrolyte	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	A symmetric sodium ion battery with an aqueous electrolyte is demonstrated ; it utilizes the NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 as both the anode and the cathode .
NASICON	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	A symmetric sodium ion battery with an aqueous electrolyte is demonstrated ; it utilizes the NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 as both the anode and the cathode .
NASICON	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	With the application of a low cost bipolar electrode material of NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 , a symmetric sodium ion battery with an aqueous electrolyte was constructed to meet the demand of stationary energy storage .
bipolar electrode material	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	With the application of a low cost bipolar electrode material of NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 , a symmetric sodium ion battery with an aqueous electrolyte was constructed to meet the demand of stationary energy storage .
calcination	6008C	Na3MnTi(PO4)3 was synthesized by a sol gel method followed by calcination of the precursor at 6008C in argon atmosphere .
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	sol gel method	Na3MnTi(PO4)3 was synthesized by a sol gel method followed by calcination of the precursor at 6008C in argon atmosphere .
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	R3c space group	The XRD diffraction pattern of Na3MnTi(PO4)3 can be indexed into a rhombohedral NASICON type unit cell with the R3c space group .
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	rhombohedral NASICON type unit cell	The XRD diffraction pattern of Na3MnTi(PO4)3 can be indexed into a rhombohedral NASICON type unit cell with the R3c space group .
NASICON structured	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	The NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 possesses two electrochemically active transition metals with the redox couples of Ti4 / Ti3
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	Ti4	The NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 possesses two electrochemically active transition metals with the redox couples of Ti4 / Ti3
electrochemically	redox couples	The NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 possesses two electrochemically active transition metals with the redox couples of Ti4 / Ti3
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	high voltage cathode for aqueous sodium ion batteries	The redox voltage of Mn3+ / Mn2+ in the NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 is well below the oxygen evolution potential in the neutral aqueous electrolyte ( 1.1 V vs. Ag / AgCl ) , which therefore enables it to be used as a high voltage cathode for aqueous sodium ion batteries .
Mn2+	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	The redox voltage of Mn3+ / Mn2+ in the NASICON structured Na3MnTi(PO4)3 is well below the oxygen evolution potential in the neutral aqueous electrolyte ( 1.1 V vs. Ag / AgCl ) , which therefore enables it to be used as a high voltage cathode for aqueous sodium ion batteries .
TEM	carbon matrix	TEM images revealed that the Na3MnTi(PO4)3 particles are composed of nanosized primary particles well - dispersed in a carbon matrix .
Na3MnTi(PO4)3	nanosized	TEM images revealed that the Na3MnTi(PO4)3 particles are composed of nanosized primary particles well - dispersed in a carbon matrix .
carbon	electrical conductivity	The presence of carbon is used to improve the electrical conductivity of Na3MnTi(PO4)3 .
carbon	Na3MnTi(PO4)3	The presence of carbon is used to improve the electrical conductivity of Na3MnTi(PO4)3 .
thermogravimetric analysis	TGA	The carbon content is about 7.8 wt. % , determined by thermogravimetric analysis ( TGA ) of the Na3MnTi(PO4)3 sample .
NaTi2(PO4)3	sodium ion	The NASICON structured NaTi2(PO4)3 has a sodium ion insertion potential well above the evolution of H2 in an aqueous Na2SO4 electrolyte .
NASICON	NaTi2(PO4)3	The NASICON structured NaTi2(PO4)3 has a sodium ion insertion potential well above the evolution of H2 in an aqueous Na2SO4 electrolyte .
NaTi2(PO4)3	Na Sn 2 ( PO4 ) 3	Although the mechanism that controls the expansion coefficients for some NZP materials is very well known , and the model has been tested for NaTi2(PO4)3 ( 6 ) using a computer model ( 2 , 7 ) , the low temperature form of Na Sn 2 ( PO4 ) 3 presents a different thermal expansion behaviour and no explanation has been given for it , nor for its structure .
expansion coefficients	thermal expansion behaviour	Although the mechanism that controls the expansion coefficients for some NZP materials is very well known , and the model has been tested for NaTi2(PO4)3 ( 6 ) using a computer model ( 2 , 7 ) , the low temperature form of Na Sn 2 ( PO4 ) 3 presents a different thermal expansion behaviour and no explanation has been given for it , nor for its structure .
NaTi2(PO4)3	NaSn2(PO4)	Differences in behavior of NaTi2(PO4)3 - NaSn2(PO4) 3 solid solutions are discussed in relation to the composition .
samples	NZP type	All the samples were indexed for NZP type structures on the basis of Hagman-Kierkegaard data for NaTi2(PO4)3 ( 3 ) from 10 to 60 <nUm> .
NaTi2(PO4)3	Ti / Sn]O6 octahedron	Comparing interatomic distances and angles for the studied compound , NaTiSn(PO4)3 , with those for the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 ( 14 ) it can be observed that the [ Ti / Sn]O6 octahedron has been elongated .
interatomic distances	angles	Comparing interatomic distances and angles for the studied compound , NaTiSn(PO4)3 , with those for the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 ( 14 ) it can be observed that the [ Ti / Sn]O6 octahedron has been elongated .
Rietveld method	interatomic distances	The results obtained by the Rietveld method confirm that , on the one hand , the behavior of the compound NaTiSn(PO4)3 is similar to that of the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 with analogous interatomic distances and angles ( 14 ) and , on the other hand , the Ti(IV) and Sn(IV) atoms are statistically distributed over the same crystallographic position .
NaTiSn(PO4)3	crystallographic position	The results obtained by the Rietveld method confirm that , on the one hand , the behavior of the compound NaTiSn(PO4)3 is similar to that of the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 with analogous interatomic distances and angles ( 14 ) and , on the other hand , the Ti(IV) and Sn(IV) atoms are statistically distributed over the same crystallographic position .
NaTi2(PO4)3	TiP2O7	The reaction product after calcination at 800 <nUm> yield NaTi2(PO4)3 as the major phase and TiP2O7 as a minor phase .
Rietveld method	thermal expansion	Using the Rietveld method to analyze the structural thermal expansion of NaTi2(PO4)3 hes allowed us to extend our understanding of its thermo mechanical properties .
symmetric sodium ion battery	excellent rate capability	The symmetric sodium ion battery exhibits an operating voltage of 1.4 V in the aqueous electrolyte of Na2SO4 with an excellent rate capability and cycle stability .
aluminum doping	activation energy	The optimum aluminum doping is produced in the M = Ti phase , which displays the lowest activation energy and the maximum conductivity .
electrical conductivity	impedance spectroscopy data	In samples with high aluminum contents , M = Ge , Sn and Ti , electrical conductivity has been deduced from impedance spectroscopy data .
P-O bond lengths	electronegativities	Owing to the acidic nature of V2O5 and P2O5 and relatively small difference between the V-O and P-O bond lengths in the VO4 and PO4 tetra hedra with considerable difference between the electronegativities , one can expect restricted isomorphism in the predicted series of vana date phosphates MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x with alkali metals ( M ) .
Mixed vanadate phosphates	alkali metal	Mixed vanadate phosphates in the systems MZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x , where M is an alkali metal , were synthesized and studied by X-ray diffraction , electron probe microanalysis , and IR spectroscopy .
NSSiP0.05	rhombohedral	NSSiP0.05 is a mixture of rhombohedral and monoclinic phases , in which the XRD patterns of the samples NSSiP0.05 and NSSiP0.1 are enlarged for the diffraction angles between 18 <nUm> and 30 <nUm> .
RGB	temperature	The ratio Rbulk / RGB increases with increasing temperature ( 0.06 for 30 <nUm> , 0.1 for 20 <nUm> and 0.16 for 10 <nUm> in the case of NSSiP0.4 ) , indicating that at low temperatures the contribution of the grain boundary resistance to the overall resistance first increases due to the lower conductivity but higher activation energy
NSSiPx	Na(2)	In the case of NSSiPx , the activation energy for the Na conduction rises when the distance between the positions Na(1) and Na(2) exceeds 3.433 .
NSSiPx crystallizes	rhombohedral structure	For x 0.1 , NSSiPx crystallizes with rhombohedral structure at room temperature .
(Na+)-O2 distances	the mobility	In the case of NSSiPx , it appears that the bottleneck is merely determined by the T1 area , but rather by the (Na+)-O2 distances and the mobility is enhanced when the distances are large .
hopping distance	high activation energy	A hopping distance that is too long requires a high activation energy for the conduction , which was observed for the compounds Na3.6Sc2(SiO4)0.6(PO4)2.4 and Na3.8Sc2(SiO4)0.8(PO4)2.2 .
neutron powder diffraction	conductivity measurements	A Sc substituted NASICON of composition Na2.5Zr1.8Sc0.2Si1.3P1.7012 has been prepared and characterized by neutron powder diffraction and conductivity measurements .
The operation voltage	electronegativity	The operation voltage depends on the electronegativity of X , where S(VI) exhibits stronger electron - withdrawing capability than Mo(VI) or W(VI) , thus weakening the M-O bands and raising the operation voltage of the same redox couple .
stronger electron	the operation voltage	The operation voltage depends on the electronegativity of X , where S(VI) exhibits stronger electron - withdrawing capability than Mo(VI) or W(VI) , thus weakening the M-O bands and raising the operation voltage of the same redox couple .
Vanadium based NASICON materials	high capacity	Vanadium based NASICON materials can supply a high capacity .
Na ion	6b site	The third Na ion occupies the 6b site , which can not be extracted from the NVP structure .
Na ion conductivities of Na4-xZr2Si3-xPxO12 range from 3.5 x 10 (ohm-cm)-1 for x = 0 to 1.9 x (ohm-cm)-1 for x = 1	300 <nUm>	Na ion conductivities of Na4-xZr2Si3-xPxO12 range from 3.5 x 10 (ohm-cm)-1 for x = 0 to 1.9 x (ohm-cm)-1 for x = 1 0 at 300 <nUm> .
aqueous batteries	stable structure	ATi2(PO4)3 represents a very promising group of anodes in aqueous batteries due to its stable structure , high capacity , and suitable voltage .
aqueous batteries	high capacity	ATi2(PO4)3 represents a very promising group of anodes in aqueous batteries due to its stable structure , high capacity , and suitable voltage .
ATi2(PO4)3	ionic conductivity	ATi2(PO4)3 exhibits high ionic conductivity , especially after doping .
Na(1+x)Hf(2)Si(x)P(3-x)O(12)	high ionic conductivities	Na(1+x)Hf(2)Si(x)P(3-x)O(12) exhibits very high ionic conductivities , where the values of Na(3.2)Hf(2)Si(2.2)P(0.8)O(12) are 2.3 x 10(-3) S cm(-1) at room temperature and 0.224 S cm(-1) at 300 <nUm> .
lower ionic conductivity	NaZr2P3O12	The rhombohedral Na1+Zr2P3-ixO12 shows lower ionic conductivity , especially in NaZr2P3O12 .
NaZr2P3O12	interstitial space	Hong showed that the network of NaZr2P3O12 contains empty interstitial space along the a-axis and the interstitial space satisfies the criteria for fast Na+ ion transport ( 19 ) .
six coordinated antiprismatic site	NaZr2P3O12	The (Zr2Si3O12)4- framework contains two alkali ion sites : Na(1) is found in a six coordinated antiprismatic site with Na-O distances of 2.489 A and corresponds to the alkali ion position in NaZr2P3O12 ( 15 ) and KZr2P3O12 .
Na-O distances	2.489 A	The (Zr2Si3O12)4- framework contains two alkali ion sites : Na(1) is found in a six coordinated antiprismatic site with Na-O distances of 2.489 A and corresponds to the alkali ion position in NaZr2P3O12 ( 15 ) and KZr2P3O12 .
V2(SO4)3	rhombohedral	V2(SO4)3 occurs in either rhombohedral or monoclinic form , in which a pure monoclinic phase can not be formed and is always mixed with the rhombohedral phase .
V5 / V4	LVP as a cathode	The redox couples of V5 / V4 and V4 / V3 facilitate LVP as a cathode , while the redox couple of V3 / V2 enables LVP to operate as an anode as well .
LiMn2O4	cathode	With LiMn2O4 as the cathode , LTP as the anode , and an aqueous electrolyte of 1 m Li2SO4 , a full - cell delivered a capacity of 40 mA h g(-1) and an energy density of 60 Wh kg(-1) based on the total mass of both the cathode and the anode materials .
LVP nanocrystals	embedded in a nanoporous carbon matrix	LVP nanocrystals ( 5 - 8 nm ) embedded in a nanoporous carbon matrix attached onto reduced graphene oxide ( rGO ) nanosheets .
Li3V2(PO4)3	monoclinic	The thermodynamically stable Li3V2(PO4)3 ( LVP ) is of the monoclinic form .
crystals	rhombohedral phase	In fact , we present here only the results concerning crystals in the rhombohedral phase , i.e. , above the phase transition for compositions ( around x = 2 ) exhibiting the monoclinic distortion .
NASICON electrode material	vanadium based NASICON	As an important class of NASICON electrode material , vanadium based NASICON type electrodes can be used as both the cathode and the anode because of their multiple redox couples .
vanadate phosphates	bond angles	When larger M+ cations are inserted into the cavities , this makes a larger contribution to the increase in the parameter c of vanadate phosphates as compared with the slight increase in the bond lengths and bond angles of the PO4 tetrahedra caused by low content of vanadium in them .
unit cell parameters	cell volume	When the unit cell parameters of the parent phases , NaM2(PO4)3 , and their derivatives Na1.4M1.6In0.4(PO4)3 , are compared , an increase of a , a decrease of c , and an overall increase in cell volume for each pair of phases is observed .
magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance	MAS NMR	27Al , 31P and 23Na magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance ( MAS NMR ) spectroscopies have been used to deduce aluminum contents and local atomic environments .
MAS NMR	local atomic environments	27Al , 31P and 23Na magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance ( MAS NMR ) spectroscopies have been used to deduce aluminum contents and local atomic environments .
rotations	phase transition	These rotations explain the nature of the phase transition , but they are not enough to understand why it occurs in the Sn compound and not in the Ti and Zr analogs .
Sn material	Zr materials	Torsion in the high temperature form of the Sn material increases with the temperature in the same way as in the Ti and the Zr materials , but the values do not interpolate according to the way the M-O bonds do .
Ti and Sn atoms	crystallographic positions	Ti and Sn atoms were considered to be statistically distributed [ 1 : 1 ] over the same crystallographic positions .
distortion angle O	increases with the temperature	The global result is that the distortion angle O given by the projection of old , O2a and Ti along the c direction , increases with the temperature from 59.1 <nUm> at 25 <nUm> up to 61.5 <nUm> at 800 <nUm> .
MAS NMR spectra	NaHf2(PO4)3	In all cases , MAS NMR spectra are formed by two main components with positions ( -19 and -29 / -32 ppm ) near those detected in NaHf2(PO4)3 .
SnO2 oxide	Na1.4Sn1.6In0.4(PO4)3	A small amount of cassiterite ( SnO2 oxide ) was detected in the Na1.4Sn1.6In0.4(PO4)3 sample .
NaZr2P3012	rhombohedral space group R3c	Single crystal x-ray analysis was used to identify the composition NaZr2P3012 and to refine its structure , which has rhombohedral space group R3c with cell parameters a - 8 and cr = 22 .
Single crystal	x-ray analysis	Single crystal x-ray analysis was used to identify the composition NaZr2P3012 and to refine its structure , which has rhombohedral space group R3c with cell parameters a - 8 and cr = 22 .
lattice parameters	NaZr2P3012	These values agree quite well with the lattice parameters of NaZr2P3012 reported in ( 3,4 ) .
NaZr2P3012	rhombohedral	Single crystal x-ray analysis was used to identify the composition NaZr2P3012 and to refine its structure , which has rhombohedral .
NaZr2P3012	monoclinic cell	In the absence of single crystals , the single crystal intensity data of NaZr2P3012 were reindexed on a monoclinic cell with hm = hr - kr , km = hr + kr , and lm = ( Lr - hr+ kr ) / 3 .
single crystals	NaZr2P3012	In the absence of single crystals , the single crystal intensity data of NaZr2P3012 were reindexed on a monoclinic cell with hm = hr - kr , km = hr + kr , and lm = ( Lr - hr+ kr ) / 3 .
singIe crystal	fourier map	The positions of all atoms of singIe crystal NaZr2P3012 were located from calculation of the patterson map and , subsequently , of t e difference fourier map .
Ion exchange	driving force	Ion exchange of NaZr2P3012 and Na3Zr2Si2POI2 characteristically , three dimensional ionic conductors exchange alkali ions with a molten salt bath , the chemical concentration gradient acting as the driving force .
three dimensional ionic conductors	alkali ions	Ion exchange of NaZr2P3012 and Na3Zr2Si2POI2 characteristically , three dimensional ionic conductors exchange alkali ions with a molten salt bath , the chemical concentration gradient acting as the driving force .
AgZr2P3012	Ag-O bonding	The AgZr2P3012 obtained from ion exchanged NaZr2P3012 in molten AgNO 3 is white , indicating ionic Ag-O bonding and strong intranetwork bonding .
formal valence	T1 atoms	It is evidenced that the formal valence of the T1 atoms is clearly below .
T1 atoms	channels	The T1 atoms are located within the channels .
T1 atoms	hexagonal channels	The nonstoichiometric compound TIxTi6Se8 crystallizes in the hexagonal Nb3Se4 structure with T1 atoms located in the hexagonal channels .
hexagonal Nb3Se4 structure	T1 atoms	The nonstoichiometric compound TIxTi6Se8 crystallizes in the hexagonal Nb3Se4 structure with T1 atoms located in the hexagonal channels .
T1 atoms	high anisotropic displacement component	At room temperature the T1 atoms exhibit a very high anisotropic displacement component U33 .
T1	T1 atoms	The present contribution focusses onto changes of the crystal structure as a function of temperature and T1 abundance especially onto the disorder of the T1 atoms and to get insight into the host guest interactions in this valence critical compound .
crystal structure	T1 atoms	The present contribution focusses onto changes of the crystal structure as a function of temperature and T1 abundance especially onto the disorder of the T1 atoms and to get insight into the host guest interactions in this valence critical compound .
T1 atoms	chemical redox reaction	Removal of T1 atoms is performed with a chemical redox reaction using I2 / CH3CN solutions .
T1 atoms	hexagonal channels	In all compounds the T1 atoms are disordered within the hexagonal channels .
T1 atoms	distorted trigonal antiprism	The environment of the T1 atoms can be described as distorted trigonal antiprism with 3 TI-Se bonds being markedly shorter than the other three contacts .
TI0.78V6S8	T1 atoms	It should be noted that in the isostructural compound TI0.78V6S8 the T1 atoms are in a trigona planar environment which was attributed to the highly covalent character of the TI-S bond .
covalent character	TI-S bond	It should be noted that in the isostructural compound TI0.78V6S8 the T1 atoms are in a trigona planar environment which was attributed to the highly covalent character of the TI-S bond .
T10.23Ti6Se8	T1 atoms	This may be explained with the lower occupation density within the channel in T10.23Ti6Se8 and hence less repulsive interactions between neighboured T1 atoms .
channel	T1 atoms	This may be explained with the lower occupation density within the channel in T10.23Ti6Se8 and hence less repulsive interactions between neighboured T1 atoms .
T1 atoms	Tl0.8Ti6Se8	Attempts to refine the T1 atoms at different z-positions yielded comparable results as described for Tl0.8Ti6Se8 .
T1 atoms	z-positions	Attempts to refine the T1 atoms at different z-positions yielded comparable results as described for Tl0.8Ti6Se8 .
T1 atoms	TlxV6S8	The change of the averaged T1 position is accompanied by a small increase of the charge of the T1 atoms towards a more ionic character as could be demonstrated for the isotypic compound TlxV6S8 .
change	ionic character	The change of the averaged T1 position is accompanied by a small increase of the charge of the T1 atoms towards a more ionic character as could be demonstrated for the isotypic compound TlxV6S8 .
T1 atoms	hexagonal channels	These observations suggest that the T1 atoms are one dimensionally disordered within the hexagonal channels whereas the host lattice shows no significant disorder .
NaTi0.8Snl.2(PO4)3	space group R3c	For the compound with x = 1.2 , NaTi0.8Snl.2(PO4)3 , the Rietveld method applied with the space group R3c or R3 does n't give good results .
electron density maps	295 K	The decrease of the U33 is reflected in the electron density maps calculated at 295 K and at 100 K .
Na4.50Yb1.50(PO4)3	Na + ions	This structure , which may written Na4.50Yb1.50(PO4)3 , consists of a three dimensional framework of PO 4 tetrahedra and (Yb,Na)O 6 octahedra , the remaining Na + ions occupying the Na(1) and Na(2) sites , large size holes of 6-fold and 10-fold coordination respectively .
Na4.50Yb1.50(PO4)3	PO 4 tetrahedra	This structure , which may written Na4.50Yb1.50(PO4)3 , consists of a three dimensional framework of PO 4 tetrahedra and (Yb,Na)O 6 octahedra , the remaining Na + ions occupying the Na(1) and Na(2) sites , large size holes of 6-fold and 10-fold coordination respectively .
Na + ions	Na(1) and Na(2) sites	This structure , which may written Na4.50Yb1.50(PO4)3 , consists of a three dimensional framework of PO 4 tetrahedra and (Yb,Na)O 6 octahedra , the remaining Na + ions occupying the Na(1) and Na(2) sites , large size holes of 6-fold and 10-fold coordination respectively .
Na(1) and Na(2) sites	6-fold and 10-fold coordination	This structure , which may written Na4.50Yb1.50(PO4)3 , consists of a three dimensional framework of PO 4 tetrahedra and (Yb,Na)O 6 octahedra , the remaining Na + ions occupying the Na(1) and Na(2) sites , large size holes of 6-fold and 10-fold coordination respectively .
The structure	Zr 4+ ions	The structure consisted of an open network of ( PO4 ) 3- tetrahedra coordina octahedrally to Zr 4+ ions with Na + ions filling a unique set of sites in a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
The structure	interstitial space	The structure consisted of an open network of ( PO4 ) 3- tetrahedra coordina octahedrally to Zr 4+ ions with Na + ions filling a unique set of sites in a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
Na + ions	sites	The structure consisted of an open network of ( PO4 ) 3- tetrahedra coordina octahedrally to Zr 4+ ions with Na + ions filling a unique set of sites in a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
isotropic temperature factors	Na + ions	Both analyses gave high isotropic temperature factors for the Na + ions , indicating that these ions are mobile .
The structure	Na + ions	The structure consists of a three dimensional skeletal network of PO 4 tetrahedra corner sharing with ZrO 6 octahedra , the Na + ions occupying a large octahedral site in the interstitial space .
three dimensional skeletal network	PO 4 tetrahedra corner	The structure consists of a three dimensional skeletal network of PO 4 tetrahedra corner sharing with ZrO 6 octahedra , the Na + ions occupying a large octahedral site in the interstitial space .
The structure	three dimensional skeletal network	The structure consists of a three dimensional skeletal network of PO 4 tetrahedra corner sharing with ZrO 6 octahedra , the Na + ions occupying a large octahedral site in the interstitial space .
Na + ions	octahedral site	The structure consists of a three dimensional skeletal network of PO 4 tetrahedra corner sharing with ZrO 6 octahedra , the Na + ions occupying a large octahedral site in the interstitial space .
Li + ions	rigidity	Replacement of the Na + ions by Li + ions in NaZr2P30,2 tests the rigidity of the (Zr2P3012)- network .
rigidity	(Zr2P3012)-	Replacement of the Na + ions by Li + ions in NaZr2P30,2 tests the rigidity of the (Zr2P3012)- network .
Nal+xZr2Si x P3_xO12	Na + ions	In the system Nal+xZr2Si x P3_xO12 , on the other hand , the introduction of excess Na + ions introduces electrostatic Na+-Na + interactions that can lower the activation energy even though transport must be via a Na 1 site .
Na + ions	activation energy	In the system Nal+xZr2Si x P3_xO12 , on the other hand , the introduction of excess Na + ions introduces electrostatic Na+-Na + interactions that can lower the activation energy even though transport must be via a Na 1 site .
Na 4 50Ybl.50(PO4) 3	NaZr2(PO4) 3	The structure of Na 4 50Ybl.50(PO4) 3 is related to that of NaZr2(PO4) 3 .
same family	Na4(Yb1.50Na0.50)(PO4)3	A number of other phases seem to belong to the same family as Na4(Yb1.50Na0.50)(PO4)3 : Fe2(SO4) 3 ( 3,4 ) , NaB2(PO4) 3 ( B = Ge,Ti,Zr ) ( 5 ) , Na3M2(PO 4)3 ( M = Ti,V,Cr,Fe ) ( 6,7 ) , Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12(0 < = x < = 3)(8) and Na4Zr2(SlO4)3 .
same family	Fe2(SO4) 3	A number of other phases seem to belong to the same family as Na4(Yb1.50Na0.50)(PO4)3 : Fe2(SO4) 3 ( 3,4 ) , NaB2(PO4) 3 ( B = Ge,Ti,Zr ) ( 5 ) , Na3M2(PO 4)3 ( M = Ti,V,Cr,Fe ) ( 6,7 ) , Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12(0 < = x < = 3)(8) and Na4Zr2(SlO4)3 .
same family	NaB2(PO4) 3	A number of other phases seem to belong to the same family as Na4(Yb1.50Na0.50)(PO4)3 : Fe2(SO4) 3 ( 3,4 ) , NaB2(PO4) 3 ( B = Ge,Ti,Zr ) ( 5 ) , Na3M2(PO 4)3 ( M = Ti,V,Cr,Fe ) ( 6,7 ) , Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12(0 < = x < = 3)(8) and Na4Zr2(SlO4)3 .
same family	B = Ge,Ti,Zr	A number of other phases seem to belong to the same family as Na4(Yb1.50Na0.50)(PO4)3 : Fe2(SO4) 3 ( 3,4 ) , NaB2(PO4) 3 ( B = Ge,Ti,Zr ) ( 5 ) , Na3M2(PO 4)3 ( M = Ti,V,Cr,Fe ) ( 6,7 ) , Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12(0 < = x < = 3)(8) and Na4Zr2(SlO4)3 .
same family	Na4Zr2(SlO4)3	A number of other phases seem to belong to the same family as Na4(Yb1.50Na0.50)(PO4)3 : Fe2(SO4) 3 ( 3,4 ) , NaB2(PO4) 3 ( B = Ge,Ti,Zr ) ( 5 ) , Na3M2(PO 4)3 ( M = Ti,V,Cr,Fe ) ( 6,7 ) , Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12(0 < = x < = 3)(8) and Na4Zr2(SlO4)3 .
Na+ ion conductivity	Na1+xZr2SixP3-xOl2	According to J.B. Goodenough , H.Y - P.Hong and J.A. Kafalas who have studied the Na+ ion conductivity in the Na1+xZr2SixP3-xOl2 phases , such a lattice is particularly well adapted for fastion transport .
High temperature crystal structures	Na1+xZr2P3-xSixO12	High temperature crystal structures of NZP ( Na1+xZr2P3-xSixO12 ) have been determinedby x-ray measurements made on single crystals .
Na1+xZr2P3-xSixO12	x-ray measurements	High temperature crystal structures of NZP ( Na1+xZr2P3-xSixO12 ) have been determinedby x-ray measurements made on single crystals .
thermal expansion	Na1+xZr2P3-xSixO12	Boilot et al. thermal expansion behavior of noticed that Na1+xZr2P3-xSixO12 ( NASICON ) was similarly anomalous .
Na1+xZr2P3-xSixO12	NASICON	Boilot et al. thermal expansion behavior of noticed that Na1+xZr2P3-xSixO12 ( NASICON ) was similarly anomalous .
Zr ion	a threefold axis	The Zr ion is located on a threefold axis , and the octahedron is therefore constrained to rotate about a vertical axis .
octahedron	vertical axis	The Zr ion is located on a threefold axis , and the octahedron is therefore constrained to rotate about a vertical axis .
NaZr2P3O2	NZP structure	The sodium zirconium phosphate NaZr2P3O2 , NZP structure , first determined 20 years ago by Hagman and Kierkegaard has several interesting features : ( i ) high ionic conductivity
NaZr2P3O2	high ionic conductivity	The sodium zirconium phosphate NaZr2P3O2 , NZP structure , first determined 20 years ago by Hagman and Kierkegaard has several interesting features : ( i ) high ionic conductivity
a crystal of Ge	wavelength	The monochromator is a crystal of Ge that selects a wavelength of 1.594 A .
wavelength	1.594 A	The monochromator is a crystal of Ge that selects a wavelength of 1.594 A .
Na4Zr2Si3Oi2	Na1+x Zr2P3-xSixO12 system	Tran Qui et a / 0.14 have studied high temperature structures of Na4Zr2Si3Oi2 , which is the other end member of the Na1+x Zr2P3-xSixO12 system , and observed that with temperature little change occurred in bond distances and polyhedra angles in the ( Zr2Si3O12 ) 4 framework , whereas the Na-O polyhedra expand dramatically .
temperature	Na-O polyhedra	Tran Qui et a / 0.14 have studied high temperature structures of Na4Zr2Si3Oi2 , which is the other end member of the Na1+x Zr2P3-xSixO12 system , and observed that with temperature little change occurred in bond distances and polyhedra angles in the ( Zr2Si3O12 ) 4 framework , whereas the Na-O polyhedra expand dramatically .
Na4Zr2Si3O12	activation energy for conduction	Na4Zr2Si3O12 has an activation energy for conduction of 8 kcal / mole , slightly lower than for Na5GdSi4O12 , the other example of a framework silicate having good ionic conductivity ( 2 ) .
single crystal	Na4Zr2Si3O12	Structure refinements of single crystal Na4Zr2Si3O12 were carried out at 25,300 , and 620 <nUm> .
Structure refinements	620 <nUm>	Structure refinements of single crystal Na4Zr2Si3O12 were carried out at 25,300 , and 620 <nUm> .
Structure refinements	Na4Zr2Si3O12	Structure refinements of single crystal Na4Zr2Si3O12 were carried out at 25,300 , and 620 <nUm> .
conductivity	pure Na4Zr2Si3O12	The conductivity of pure Na4Zr2Si3O12 at 300 <nUm> is 3.5 x 10 (ohm-cm)-1 and is thus only a moderately good ionic conductor in comparison with Na5GdSi4O12 , and Na3Zr2Si2PO12(2) .
pure Na4Zr2Si3O12	ionic conductor	The conductivity of pure Na4Zr2Si3O12 at 300 <nUm> is 3.5 x 10 (ohm-cm)-1 and is thus only a moderately good ionic conductor in comparison with Na5GdSi4O12 , and Na3Zr2Si2PO12(2) .
ionic conductor	Na5GdSi4O12	The conductivity of pure Na4Zr2Si3O12 at 300 <nUm> is 3.5 x 10 (ohm-cm)-1 and is thus only a moderately good ionic conductor in comparison with Na5GdSi4O12 , and Na3Zr2Si2PO12(2) .
spherical crystal	Na4Zr2Si3O12	X-Ray intensity data for a spherical crystal of Na4Zr2Si3O12 were collected on a computer controlled four circle diffractometer using AgKa radiation .
X-Ray intensity data	spherical crystal of Na4Zr2Si3O12	X-Ray intensity data for a spherical crystal of Na4Zr2Si3O12 were collected on a computer controlled four circle diffractometer using AgKa radiation .
rhombohedral NZP	Na + x Zr2Six P3 _ x O,2	The expected structural distortions of rhombohedral NZP , furthermore , could lead to a high pressure phase transition to the monoclinic form exhibited by intermediate members of the Na + x Zr2Six P3 _ x O,2 series .
Na2Ni2Fe(PO4)3	[NiO6]	In the allaudite - type phosphate Na2Ni2Fe(PO4)3 [NiO6] and [FeO6] octahedral share edges to form trimers in the structure .
[NiO6]	[FeO6] octahedral	In the allaudite - type phosphate Na2Ni2Fe(PO4)3 [NiO6] and [FeO6] octahedral share edges to form trimers in the structure .
Na2Ni2Fe(PO4)3	alluaudite type	The general structure of Na2Ni2Fe(PO4)3 is isostructural to the alluaudite type .
NASICON structure	negatively charged 3D framework	The NASICON structure has a negatively charged 3D framework , of general formula M2X3O12 , within which the Naz cations reside in fully or partially occupied sites .
negatively charged 3D framework	M2X3O12	The NASICON structure has a negatively charged 3D framework , of general formula M2X3O12 , within which the Naz cations reside in fully or partially occupied sites .
M2X3O12	Naz cations	The NASICON structure has a negatively charged 3D framework , of general formula M2X3O12 , within which the Naz cations reside in fully or partially occupied sites .
Na3NiZr(PO4)3	ion exchange	A new phosphates Li2.6Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3 and Na3NiZr(PO4)3 have been obtained , respectively , by ion exchange and coprecipitation routes .
phosphates	Li2.6Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3	A new phosphates Li2.6Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3 and Na3NiZr(PO4)3 have been obtained , respectively , by ion exchange and coprecipitation routes .
Li2.6Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3	ion exchange	Li2.6Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3 was synthesized through ion exchange from the sodium analog .
Li2.6Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3	sodium analog	Li2.6Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3 was synthesized through ion exchange from the sodium analog .
the compositions showing fast ionic sodium transport	slight monoclinic distortion	( a ) First , all the compositions showing fast ionic sodium transport are characterized at room temperature by a slight monoclinic distortion ( B2 / b ) of the ideal rhombohedral packing .
Ionic conductivity	Na4-x,Zr2Si3-xPxO12	Ionic conductivity in compositions of the type Na4-x,Zr2Si3-xPxO12 was discovered by Hong ( 1 ) .
ceramics	NASICON grains	In fact , at this temperature , especially for compositions outside the 1.9 < x < 2.1 range , ceramics consist of NASICON grains ( a few micrometers in size ) accompanied by a second phase ( monoclinic zirconia or glass ) .
second phase	monoclinic zirconia	In fact , at this temperature , especially for compositions outside the 1.9 < x < 2.1 range , ceramics consist of NASICON grains ( a few micrometers in size ) accompanied by a second phase ( monoclinic zirconia or glass ) .
conductivity	structural changes	In his fundamental paper , Hong ( 1 ) has shown that the variations in conductivity with composition were closely coupled with structural changes : ( a ) First , all the compositions showing fast ionic sodium transport are characterized at room temperature by a slight monoclinic distortion ( B2 / b ) of the ideal rhombohedral packing .
LiZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x	840 <nUm>	Apart from the high temperature NZP modification , lithium vanadate phosphates LiZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x with 0 x 0.8 synthesized at temperatures not exceeding 840 <nUm> crystallize in the scandium tungstate type structure .
LiZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x	scandium tungstate type structure	Apart from the high temperature NZP modification , lithium vanadate phosphates LiZr2(VO4)x(PO4)3-x with 0 x 0.8 synthesized at temperatures not exceeding 840 <nUm> crystallize in the scandium tungstate type structure .
metal bonding	temperature	It is expected that changes within the metal bonding occur both as a function of temperature and composition .
weight fractions	NaAlP2O7	The weight fractions of the side phase , NaAlP2O7 , are also given in Table 1 and they do not depend on the composition .
structure refinement	Na3.1Zr1.78Si1.24P1.76O12	The structure refinement yielded the following composition : Na3.1Zr1.78Si1.24P1.76O12 .
rhombohedral phase	Na3.1Zr1.78Si1.24P1.76O12	The starting model for the rhombohedral phase was that provided by Kohler and Schulz ( 13 ) for a single crystal of approximate composition Na3.1Zr1.78Si1.24P1.76O12 .
conductivity	Na3.3(Sco.3Zr1.7)Si2PO12	A maximim conductivity is attained with the composition of Na3.3(Sco.3Zr1.7)Si2PO12 and a further increase in sodium content results in a decrease in conductivity .
Na3.3(Sco.3Zr1.7)Si2PO12	sodium content	A maximim conductivity is attained with the composition of Na3.3(Sco.3Zr1.7)Si2PO12 and a further increase in sodium content results in a decrease in conductivity .
lattice symmetry	Nasicon compounds	The lattice symmetry of Nasicon compounds is basically rhombohedral ( R3c ) with a slight monoclinic deformation around the ( Na3-O ) composition ( x = 2 ) .
lattice symmetry	rhombohedral	The lattice symmetry of Nasicon compounds is basically rhombohedral ( R3c ) with a slight monoclinic deformation around the ( Na3-O ) composition ( x = 2 ) .
conductivity	(Na)Zr2(PSi2O12)	a pronounced maximum of conductivity around the composition (Na)Zr2(PSi2O12) .
Na1 + xZr2SixP3 - xO12	high cationic conductivity	Exceptions are silicophos phates Na1 + xZr2SixP3 - xO12 ( NASICON ) , owing to their high cationic conductivity .
NZP phase	LiZr2(VO4)0.2(PO4)2.8	The microprobe analysis indicates that the com position of the NZP phase is LiZr2(VO4)0.2(PO4)2.8 .
LiZr2(VO4)0.8(PO4)2.2	Rietveld method	The crystal structures of LiZr2(VO4)0.8(PO4)2.2 and NaZr2(VO4)0.4(PO4)2.6 were refined based on powder X-ray diffraction data by the Rietveld method ( Fig. 5 ) .
powder X-ray diffraction	Rietveld method	The crystal structures of LiZr2(VO4)0.8(PO4)2.2 and NaZr2(VO4)0.4(PO4)2.6 were refined based on powder X-ray diffraction data by the Rietveld method ( Fig. 5 ) .
Differentia tion of the sites of anionforming atoms	greater stability region of the tetrahedra	Differentia tion of the sites of anionforming atoms ( and , hence , the bond lengths and bond angles ) gives rise to a greater stability region of the tetrahedra in com bination with smaller tetrahedral phosphorus cations .
vanadium content	LiZr2(VO4)(PO4)3	An increase in the vanadium content in LiZr2(VO4)(PO4)3 - reduces the temperature of the phase transition SW ( space group P21 / n ) NZP ( space group Rc ) .
vanadium content	temperature	An increase in the vanadium content in LiZr2(VO4)(PO4)3 - reduces the temperature of the phase transition SW ( space group P21 / n ) NZP ( space group Rc ) .
temperature	NZP	An increase in the vanadium content in LiZr2(VO4)(PO4)3 - reduces the temperature of the phase transition SW ( space group P21 / n ) NZP ( space group Rc ) .
the population of the conducting ions	temperature	The analogous observation , that the population of the conducting ions is independent of temperature , was previously made for the solid electrolyte RbAg4I5 .
NASICON	ionic conductor	NASICON , a material is produced that rivals Al2O3 as an ionic conductor for industrial solid state electrolyte applications in high temperature batteries .
ionic conductor	solid state electrolyte applications	NASICON , a material is produced that rivals Al2O3 as an ionic conductor for industrial solid state electrolyte applications in high temperature batteries .
NASICON	Al2O3	NASICON , a material is produced that rivals Al2O3 as an ionic conductor for industrial solid state electrolyte applications in high temperature batteries .
NaTi2(PO4)3(NTP)	NASICON type crystal structure	Chemical analysis by ICP indicated that NaTi2(PO4)3(NTP) has a NASICON type crystal structure belonging to the space group R-3c .
high conductivity	NASICON	et al. reported the high conductivity of NASICON , much work has been devoted to synthesis of the analogous compounds .
Ti(OH)4	air drying	The semiperme able white gel , Ti(OH)4 , was obtained by washing with distilled , deionized water and air drying .
V : P ratio	parameter a	The unit cell parameters of the terminal members of solid solutions of vanadate phosphates are given in Table 1 ; as the radius of the alkali metal cation or the V : P ratio increases , regular increase in the parameter c and decrease in the parameter a take place .
LiZr2(VO4)0.8(PO4)2.2	space group	The crystal structure of the vanadate phosphate LiZr2(VO4)0.8(PO4)2.2 was refined in the space group P21 / n .
space group	P21 / n	The crystal structure of the vanadate phosphate LiZr2(VO4)0.8(PO4)2.2 was refined in the space group P21 / n .
Coulomb forces	effective potential barrie	This correlation is in good agreement with stochastic Langevin dynamic simulations of a one dimensional model for framework ionic conductors proposed by Jacobson et al. ( 30 ) , which show that the Coulomb forces push the mobile ions up the crystal framework potential well , lowering the effective potential barrier and increasing the conductivity .
parameter	P : As	Both the parameter and lattice volume increased with the change of P : As from 9 : 1 to 6 : 4 .
octahedrally coordinated	Ni2+ ions	Diffuse reflectance spectra indicate the presence of octahedrally coordinated Ni2+ ions .
Diffuse reflectance spectra	Ni2+ ions	Diffuse reflectance spectra indicate the presence of octahedrally coordinated Ni2+ ions .
Na4.50Ybl.50(PO4) 3	1150 <nUm> for 16 hours	The symmetry and cell constants have been obtained from a single crystal with composition Na4.50Ybl.50(PO4) 3 which has been prepared from a polycrystalline sample having the same composition heated to 1150 <nUm> for 16 hours and then cooled slowly .
symmetry	Na4.50Ybl.50(PO4) 3	The symmetry and cell constants have been obtained from a single crystal with composition Na4.50Ybl.50(PO4) 3 which has been prepared from a polycrystalline sample having the same composition heated to 1150 <nUm> for 16 hours and then cooled slowly .
NaZr2P3OI2	single crystal	The structure of NaZr2P3OI2 was refined by single crystal x-ray analysis .
NaZr2P3OI2	x-ray	The structure of NaZr2P3OI2 was refined by single crystal x-ray analysis .
Na1+xZr2P3	Si1 - xO12	They reported that in the system Na1+xZr2P3 ; Si1 - xO12 the lattice parameter a decreases with temperatures up to x = 1 and then gradually increases while the c axis always increases faster with temperature for all x values .
Si1 - xO12	x = 1	They reported that in the system Na1+xZr2P3 ; Si1 - xO12 the lattice parameter a decreases with temperatures up to x = 1 and then gradually increases while the c axis always increases faster with temperature for all x values .
Na3Ni2Fe(PO4)2(P2O7) -	sodium dimolybdate Na2Mo2O7	The crystals grown used in the present study were obtained in a synthesis aiming at the hypothetic diphosphate - Na3Ni2Fe(PO4)2(P2O7) - in flux of sodium dimolybdate Na2Mo2O7 .
characteristic vibrations	OH-	Because of the absence of the characteristic vibrations of OH- or H2O at 3200-3600 cm-1 and 1600 cm-1
conduction pathways	Na(1+x)AlxTi(2-x)(PO4)3	With this technique , the most probable conduction pathways in Na(1+x)AlxTi(2-x)(PO4)3 and Na(1+x)InxZr(2-x)(PO4)3 samples have also been deduced .
Na+ <--> Li+ ion - exchange	Li2.6 Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3	Chemical analysis revealed that the Na+ <--> Li+ ion - exchange was not complete : the final product presented the formula Li2.6 Na0.4NiZr(PO4)3 .
final temperatures	M metal	To avoid the formation of by - products ( unreacted HfO2 and HfP2O7 ) the low heating rates ( 0.5 - 1 K min1 ) , intermediate regrinding , and appropriated final temperatures , which depend upon the M metal , were used .
by - products	HfO2	To avoid the formation of by - products ( unreacted HfO2 and HfP2O7 ) the low heating rates ( 0.5 - 1 K min1 ) , intermediate regrinding , and appropriated final temperatures , which depend upon the M metal , were used .
heating rates	0.5 - 1 K min1	To avoid the formation of by - products ( unreacted HfO2 and HfP2O7 ) the low heating rates ( 0.5 - 1 K min1 ) , intermediate regrinding , and appropriated final temperatures , which depend upon the M metal , were used .
hafnium	neutron absorber	The incorporation of hafnium in the composition of waste forms is important considering its applying as neutron absorber .
XRD patterns	600 1C	XRD patterns of the reaction mixtures treated at 600 1C contained Hf2P2O7 reflections and amorphous phases , which reacted at higher temperatures .
rhombohedra phase	Nal+xZr2SixP3-1012	Crystal determinations of the rhombohedra phase ( space group Ric ) , for different compositions ( 2 < x < 2.4 ) in the NASICON solid solution Nal+xZr2SixP3-1012 , have been performed at different temperatures by X-ray diffraction .
rhombohedra phase	X-ray diffraction	Crystal determinations of the rhombohedra phase ( space group Ric ) , for different compositions ( 2 < x < 2.4 ) in the NASICON solid solution Nal+xZr2SixP3-1012 , have been performed at different temperatures by X-ray diffraction .
2 < x < 2.4	Nal+xZr2SixP3-1012	Crystal determinations of the rhombohedra phase ( space group Ric ) , for different compositions ( 2 < x < 2.4 ) in the NASICON solid solution Nal+xZr2SixP3-1012 , have been performed at different temperatures by X-ray diffraction .
rhombohedral phase	NASICON solid solution	We present here X-ray single crystal determination of the rhombohedral phase for different compositions in the NASICON solid solution ( between x = 2 and x = 2.4 ) .
NASICON solid solution	x = 2	We present here X-ray single crystal determination of the rhombohedral phase for different compositions in the NASICON solid solution ( between x = 2 and x = 2.4 ) .
monoclinic C2 / c phase	compositions	Rather , it reaches a maximum near x = 2.2 , and the monoclinic C2 / c phase is associated with the compositions having the largest rhombohedral Cr axis , which produces the largest unit cell volume.
compositions	rhombohedral Cr axis	Rather , it reaches a maximum near x = 2.2 , and the monoclinic C2 / c phase is associated with the compositions having the largest rhombohedral Cr axis , which produces the largest unit cell volume.
lattice parameter	NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3	The variation of the lattice parameter a of NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3 with the composition presents a sharp change between the compositions with x values 1 and 1.2 .
lattice parameter	compositions	The variation of the lattice parameter a of NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3 with the composition presents a sharp change between the compositions with x values 1 and 1.2 .
unit cell symmetry	trigonal	Depending on the composition of silicophosphates , the unit cell symmetry varies from trigonal to monoclinic with retention of the overall NZP architecture .
unit cell symmetry	monoclinic	Depending on the composition of silicophosphates , the unit cell symmetry varies from trigonal to monoclinic with retention of the overall NZP architecture .
NASICON solid solution	Na1+x+4yZr2_ySixP3_x012	Earlier structure investigations on the NASICON solid solution system ( 1,2 ) yielded the following composition formula : Na1+x+4yZr2_ySixP3_x012 .
The structural changes with variations in composition	Rietveld analysis	The structural changes with variations in composition were then examined by Wuensh et al. ( 16 ) using Rietveld analysis of neutron powder diffraction data at room temperature .
Rietveld analysis	room temperature	The structural changes with variations in composition were then examined by Wuensh et al. ( 16 ) using Rietveld analysis of neutron powder diffraction data at room temperature .
structural changes	mid-Na interstitial site	All our other significant structural changes with the variation of composition can be deduced from the evolution of the mid-Na interstitial site .
thermal expansion	thermal effect	The predictability of thermal expansion and the tailoring of the composition of NZP ceramics require to check whether the thermal effect cn the rotations and distortions of the atomic polyhedra in this structure is the responsible for the high anisotropy in the thermal expansion .
rotations	anisotropy	The predictability of thermal expansion and the tailoring of the composition of NZP ceramics require to check whether the thermal effect cn the rotations and distortions of the atomic polyhedra in this structure is the responsible for the high anisotropy in the thermal expansion .
distortions	atomic polyhedra	The predictability of thermal expansion and the tailoring of the composition of NZP ceramics require to check whether the thermal effect cn the rotations and distortions of the atomic polyhedra in this structure is the responsible for the high anisotropy in the thermal expansion .
Na2.7(Sc0.2Zr1.8)Si1.5P1.5O12	monoclinic	The very slight change in slope for curve 2 indicates that this phase , of composition Na2.7(Sc0.2Zr1.8)Si1.5P1.5O12 , is probably monoclinic at room temperature .
NTP structure	P : As	TABLEII Change of lattice parameters and bond distances of thetetrahedral unit , (P,As)-O4 , in NTP structure with the ratios of P : As .
thetetrahedral unit	(P,As)-O4	TABLEII Change of lattice parameters and bond distances of thetetrahedral unit , (P,As)-O4 , in NTP structure with the ratios of P : As .
bond distances	thetetrahedral unit	TABLEII Change of lattice parameters and bond distances of thetetrahedral unit , (P,As)-O4 , in NTP structure with the ratios of P : As .
RigakuRAD-2C	monoch	X-ray powder diffraction ( XRD ) using a RigakuRAD-2C with monoch romated Cu K radiation .
X-ray powder diffraction	Cu K radiation	X-ray powder diffraction ( XRD ) using a RigakuRAD-2C with monoch romated Cu K radiation .
bond distances	Rietveld analysis	Table I shows the crystallographic and structural parameters , and the selected bond distances obtained by Rietveld analysis for the sintered sample of the ratio of P : As = 9 : 1 , NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12 .
crystallographic and structural parameters	sintered sample	Table I shows the crystallographic and structural parameters , and the selected bond distances obtained by Rietveld analysis for the sintered sample of the ratio of P : As = 9 : 1 , NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12 .
Rietveld analysis	XRD patterns	Rietveld analysis of XRD patterns provided efient structural parameters for other samples as well as NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12 .
structural parameters	NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12	Rietveld analysis of XRD patterns provided efient structural parameters for other samples as well as NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12 .
XRD patterns	structural parameters	Rietveld analysis of XRD patterns provided efient structural parameters for other samples as well as NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12 .
Crystallographic and structural parameters	NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12	TableI Crystallographic and structural parameters , and selected bond distances for NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12 calculated by Rietveld analysis
bond distances	Rietveld analysis	TableI Crystallographic and structural parameters , and selected bond distances for NaTi2(P0.9As0.1)3O12 calculated by Rietveld analysis
TiCl4	distilled water	TiCl4 was added with stirring to distilled water cooled by ice .
TiCl4	stirring	TiCl4 was added with stirring to distilled water cooled by ice .
NTP	tetrahedral units	It is recognized that the preparation of solid solutions between NTP and other similar compounds with different size tetrahedral units , for example AsO34 , results in a material with a higher cationic migration and higher electric conductivity .
solid solutions	compounds	It is recognized that the preparation of solid solutions between NTP and other similar compounds with different size tetrahedral units , for example AsO34 , results in a material with a higher cationic migration and higher electric conductivity .
solid solutions	electric conductivity	It is recognized that the preparation of solid solutions between NTP and other similar compounds with different size tetrahedral units , for example AsO34 , results in a material with a higher cationic migration and higher electric conductivity .
 high temperature	NTP type single phase	Though they are sintered at a high temperature , an NTP type single phase without impurities was obtained under thesame materials ratio conditions .
NTP type single phase	impurities	Though they are sintered at a high temperature , an NTP type single phase without impurities was obtained under thesame materials ratio conditions .
NTP type single phase	materials ratio	Though they are sintered at a high temperature , an NTP type single phase without impurities was obtained under thesame materials ratio conditions .
NaTi2P3AsxO3	hydrothermal method	In the present work , the NASICON type solid solution NaTi2P3AsxO3 was obtained as a powder by means of a hydrothermal method .
NASICON type solid solution	NaTi2P3AsxO3	In the present work , the NASICON type solid solution NaTi2P3AsxO3 was obtained as a powder by means of a hydrothermal method .
As content	chemical composition	For this material , the electric conductivity increases with increases in the As content of the chemical composition .
electric conductivity	As content	For this material , the electric conductivity increases with increases in the As content of the chemical composition .
morphological inhomogeneity	point elemental analysis	To elucidate whether the morphological inhomogeneity is also reflected in the chemical composition point to point elemental analysis were performed .
morphological inhomogeneity	chemical composition	To elucidate whether the morphological inhomogeneity is also reflected in the chemical composition point to point elemental analysis were performed .
NaA2(PO4)3	A = Ti	Their structure was initially described for NaA2(PO4)3 ( A = Ti) .
structure	NaA2(PO4)3	Their structure was initially described for NaA2(PO4)3 ( A = Ti) .
(O3AO3M1(Na)O3AO3)	PO4 tetrahedra	Thus , the network of NaA2(PO4)3 can be considered as made up of inite ribbons of composition (O3AO3M1(Na)O3AO3) connected by PO4 tetrahedra .
inite ribbons	(O3AO3M1(Na)O3AO3)	Thus , the network of NaA2(PO4)3 can be considered as made up of inite ribbons of composition (O3AO3M1(Na)O3AO3) connected by PO4 tetrahedra .
structures of KZr2(AsO4)3 and Na3Sc2(AsO4)3	single crystal X-ray diffraction data	The structures of KZr2(AsO4)3 and Na3Sc2(AsO4)3 have been determined from single crystal X-ray diffraction data .
temperatures	high temperature assembly	For the recording at different temperatures we used the high temperature assembly developed in the Section of the In .
high temperature assembly	the Section of the In	For the recording at different temperatures we used the high temperature assembly developed in the Section of the In .
Zr-O	Zr2(AsO4)3	The Zr-O and As-O distances of the covalent anionic framework Zr2(AsO4)3 are slightly smaller than those calculated from the ionic radii .
Zr-O and As-O distances	covalent anionic framework	The Zr-O and As-O distances of the covalent anionic framework Zr2(AsO4)3 are slightly smaller than those calculated from the ionic radii .
Zr-O and As-O distances	ionic radii	The Zr-O and As-O distances of the covalent anionic framework Zr2(AsO4)3 are slightly smaller than those calculated from the ionic radii .
peaks	arsenate	The shift of the peaks , toward the lower energy in the arsenate , is due to longer As-O-O bonds compared to P-O-O bonds .
lower energy	As-O-O bonds	The shift of the peaks , toward the lower energy in the arsenate , is due to longer As-O-O bonds compared to P-O-O bonds .
arsenate	As-O-O bonds	The shift of the peaks , toward the lower energy in the arsenate , is due to longer As-O-O bonds compared to P-O-O bonds .
arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3	X-ray diffraction	The arsenate NaZr2(AsO4)3 has been synthesised and characterized by mean of X-ray diffraction and vibrational spectroscopy .
Fast ion conduction	solid solutions	Fast ion conduction in solid solutions between sodium zirconium phosphate and sodium zirconium silicate , Nal+xZr2SixP3-x 12 ( 0 x 3 ) , was first reported by Hong ( 1 ) and by Goodenough et al. ( 2 ) .
sodium zirconium phosphate	Nal+xZr2SixP3-x 12	Fast ion conduction in solid solutions between sodium zirconium phosphate and sodium zirconium silicate , Nal+xZr2SixP3-x 12 ( 0 x 3 ) , was first reported by Hong ( 1 ) and by Goodenough et al. ( 2 ) .
solid solutions	Nal+xZr2SixP3-x 12	Fast ion conduction in solid solutions between sodium zirconium phosphate and sodium zirconium silicate , Nal+xZr2SixP3-x 12 ( 0 x 3 ) , was first reported by Hong ( 1 ) and by Goodenough et al. ( 2 ) .
Sodium ions	three dimensional interstices	Sodium ions occupy three dimensional interstices : all the octahedral interstices noted Na(1) in pure phosphate ( x = 0 ) and also all the irregular 8-coordinated Na(2) in pure silicate ( x = 3 ) .
octahedral interstices	phosphate	Sodium ions occupy three dimensional interstices : all the octahedral interstices noted Na(1) in pure phosphate ( x = 0 ) and also all the irregular 8-coordinated Na(2) in pure silicate ( x = 3 ) .
Lattice constant determinations	volume expansion coefficient	Lattice constant determinations previously reported by Tran Qui et al. , for the silicate end member x = 3 provide a relatively close volume expansion coefficient of 3.7 x 10 -5 0 -1 , in contrast with the phosphate end member which is well known to exhibit a low coefficient .
volume expansion coefficient	phosphate	Lattice constant determinations previously reported by Tran Qui et al. , for the silicate end member x = 3 provide a relatively close volume expansion coefficient of 3.7 x 10 -5 0 -1 , in contrast with the phosphate end member which is well known to exhibit a low coefficient .
crystal structure determination	Na3.09(8)	However , we have recently clearly demonstrated , from a crystal structure determination ( 14 ) , the formation of Na3.09(8) which confirms the existence of the Nal+xZr2P3-xSix012 Hong solid solutions which only exhibit the Si-O P nonstoichiometry mechanism .
Na3.09(8)	Nal+xZr2P3-xSix012	However , we have recently clearly demonstrated , from a crystal structure determination ( 14 ) , the formation of Na3.09(8) which confirms the existence of the Nal+xZr2P3-xSix012 Hong solid solutions which only exhibit the Si-O P nonstoichiometry mechanism .
neutron diffraction	NaZr2 (PO4)3	In fact , only at high temperature ( 500 K ) , a very weak occupation of this site has been previously observed by neutron diffraction ( 18 ) in the NASICON analog and also by NMR ( 19 ) in NaZr2 (PO4)3 .
high temperature	occupation	In fact , only at high temperature ( 500 K ) , a very weak occupation of this site has been previously observed by neutron diffraction ( 18 ) in the NASICON analog and also by NMR ( 19 ) in NaZr2 (PO4)3 .
Single crystals	pure phosphate	Single crystals of pure phosphate were obtained directly from the melt or by flux technique in boron oxide ( 20 ) .
Single crystals	flux technique	Single crystals of pure phosphate were obtained directly from the melt or by flux technique in boron oxide ( 20 ) .
Nal+xZr2SixP3-x012	Si - P nonstoichiometry mechanism	For the six crystal determinations , evidence of the total occupancy of the Zr octahedron is found , unambiguously demonstrating that our crystals belong to solid solution Nal+xZr2SixP3-x012 in which only the Si - P nonstoichiometry mechanism is present .
Zr octahedron	Nal+xZr2SixP3-x012	For the six crystal determinations , evidence of the total occupancy of the Zr octahedron is found , unambiguously demonstrating that our crystals belong to solid solution Nal+xZr2SixP3-x012 in which only the Si - P nonstoichiometry mechanism is present .
Nal+xZr2SixP3-x012	NASICON solid solutions	In conclusion , structural determinations in the Nal+xZr2SixP3-x012 NASICON solid solutions show competing effects of static lattice potential and ion interactions .
static lattice potential	ion interactions	In conclusion , structural determinations in the Nal+xZr2SixP3-x012 NASICON solid solutions show competing effects of static lattice potential and ion interactions .
single crystals	( Na ( l ) + (P3-xSix)012	Therefore the compositions of all our single crystals are close to the following ideal formula : ( Na ( l ) + (P3-xSix)012 with 3 .
Carnegieite structure	high temperature	The Carnegieite structure of high temperature NaA1SiO4 , for example , has tetrahedrally coordinated A18+ ions .
NaA1SiO4	A18+ ions	The Carnegieite structure of high temperature NaA1SiO4 , for example , has tetrahedrally coordinated A18+ ions .
Carnegieite structure	NaA1SiO4	The Carnegieite structure of high temperature NaA1SiO4 , for example , has tetrahedrally coordinated A18+ ions .
skeleton structures	alkali ion transport	As part of a search for skeleton structures for fast alkali ion transport , the system Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12 has been prepared , analyzed structurally and ion exchanged reversibly with Li + , Ag + , and K + ions .
alkali ion transport	Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12	As part of a search for skeleton structures for fast alkali ion transport , the system Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12 has been prepared , analyzed structurally and ion exchanged reversibly with Li + , Ag + , and K + ions .
Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12	Li +	As part of a search for skeleton structures for fast alkali ion transport , the system Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12 has been prepared , analyzed structurally and ion exchanged reversibly with Li + , Ag + , and K + ions .
Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12	skeleton structure	The system Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12 has a skeleton structure consisting of a rigid , three dimensional network stabilized by electrons from mobile alkali ions in a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
skeleton structure	dimensional network	The system Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12 has a skeleton structure consisting of a rigid , three dimensional network stabilized by electrons from mobile alkali ions in a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
sol gel technique	stoichiometric phases	used a sol gel technique to prepare stoichiometric phases which corresponded to the compositional formula proposed by Hong , Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12 .
stoichiometric phases	Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12	used a sol gel technique to prepare stoichiometric phases which corresponded to the compositional formula proposed by Hong , Na1+xZr2SixP3-xO12 .
compounds	K + ions	The fact that the compounds can be reverse ion exchanged with K + ions shows that the bottlenecks are large enough to permit the large K + ions to pass .
compounds	bottlenecks	The fact that the compounds can be reverse ion exchanged with K + ions shows that the bottlenecks are large enough to permit the large K + ions to pass .
complex anion	SO42-	Therefore , it seemed appropriate to build the network with at least one cation that formed a strongly covalent complex , thus ntlizing in effect a complex anion such as SO42- , NO3- , BO33-' , CO32- , SiO44- , or PO43- .
complex anion	NO3-	Therefore , it seemed appropriate to build the network with at least one cation that formed a strongly covalent complex , thus ntlizing in effect a complex anion such as SO42- , NO3- , BO33-' , CO32- , SiO44- , or PO43- .
complex anion	CO32-	Therefore , it seemed appropriate to build the network with at least one cation that formed a strongly covalent complex , thus ntlizing in effect a complex anion such as SO42- , NO3- , BO33-' , CO32- , SiO44- , or PO43- .
Na+ ion transport	oxide	For Na+ ion transport in an oxide , the bottleneck smallest diameter should , therefore , exceed 4.8 L In addition to these geometrical constraints , chemical bonding also plays a role .
bottleneck	smallest diameter	For Na+ ion transport in an oxide , the bottleneck smallest diameter should , therefore , exceed 4.8 L In addition to these geometrical constraints , chemical bonding also plays a role .
smallest diameter	geometrical constraints	For Na+ ion transport in an oxide , the bottleneck smallest diameter should , therefore , exceed 4.8 L In addition to these geometrical constraints , chemical bonding also plays a role .
crystals	x-ray analysis	The crystals obtained for x-ray analysis by this procedure were typically cube shaped , about 0.1 mm on a side .
Na1	O2- ions	A Na1 is octahedrally coordinated by O2- ions of the two neighboring Zr(2O)6 octaliedra .
O2- ions	Zr(2O)6 octaliedra	A Na1 is octahedrally coordinated by O2- ions of the two neighboring Zr(2O)6 octaliedra .
rectangle	sites 2b and 2d of P63	it is a rectangle between sites 2b and 2d of P63 / mmc with a sl ortest Na-O contact of 2.71i , and the 2b position itself is a midpoint between two O2- ions separated by 4.84 A .
2b position	midpoint between two O2- ion	it is a rectangle between sites 2b and 2d of P63 / mmc with a sl ortest Na-O contact of 2.71i , and the 2b position itself is a midpoint between two O2- ions separated by 4.84 A .
sites 2b and 2d of P63	Na-O contact	it is a rectangle between sites 2b and 2d of P63 / mmc with a sl ortest Na-O contact of 2.71i , and the 2b position itself is a midpoint between two O2- ions separated by 4.84 A .
octahedra	tetrahedra	The basic unit of the network , which is shaded in Fig.1 , consists of two octahedra joined by three tetrahedra , corresponding to (Zr2P3O12)- .
octahedra	(Zr2P3O12)-	The basic unit of the network , which is shaded in Fig.1 , consists of two octahedra joined by three tetrahedra , corresponding to (Zr2P3O12)- .
x-ray powder pattern	monoclinic cell	As indicated in Table 1 , the x-ray powder pattern of Na3.Zr2Si_2PO12 can only be indexed on a monoclinic cell .
Na3.Zr2Si_2PO12	monoclinic cell	As indicated in Table 1 , the x-ray powder pattern of Na3.Zr2Si_2PO12 can only be indexed on a monoclinic cell .
geometrical features	skeleton	Thus the geometrical features of the skeleton and its interstitial space satsify the criteria for fast Na+ ion transport , provided the site preference energy for a Na I position is not too much greater than those for Na 2 or Na 3 positions .
skeleton	Na+ ion transport	Thus the geometrical features of the skeleton and its interstitial space satsify the criteria for fast Na+ ion transport , provided the site preference energy for a Na I position is not too much greater than those for Na 2 or Na 3 positions .
skeleton	Na I position	Thus the geometrical features of the skeleton and its interstitial space satsify the criteria for fast Na+ ion transport , provided the site preference energy for a Na I position is not too much greater than those for Na 2 or Na 3 positions .
bottleneck	octahedral	The bottleneck in the passageway from a Na 1 site to a Na 2 or Na 3 site is a puckered hexagonal ring having sides that alternate between octahedral and tetrahedral edges .
bottleneck	tetrahedral	The bottleneck in the passageway from a Na 1 site to a Na 2 or Na 3 site is a puckered hexagonal ring having sides that alternate between octahedral and tetrahedral edges .
Na+ ion	alkali ion	Because the Li+ ion is considerable smaller than the Na+ ion , the network would be expected to collapse were it bonded tightly to the alkali ion .
Li+ ion	Na+ ion	Because the Li+ ion is considerable smaller than the Na+ ion , the network would be expected to collapse were it bonded tightly to the alkali ion .
bottleneck	Na+ ion	The shortest diameter of the bottleneck is larger than 4.8 A , twice the sum of Na+ ion and 2 ion radii .
diameter	bottleneck	The shortest diameter of the bottleneck is larger than 4.8 A , twice the sum of Na+ ion and 2 ion radii .
Na-O bonding	activation energy	In such a case , the Na-O bonding is expected to be strong enough to make the activation energy for Na+ ion transport relatively larger .
Na+ ion	Nal+xZr2SixP3.Xo12	Therefore , we anticipate fast Na+ ion conduction in the system Nal+xZr2SixP3.Xo12
Na+ ion	conduction	Therefore , we anticipate fast Na+ ion conduction in the system Nal+xZr2SixP3.Xo12
activation energy	Na+ ion conduction	Since the site preference energies for the two positions are not equal , the activation energy for Na+ ion conduction may be large .
octahedral site	M ~ cation	Clearly the spacing between these octahedral site faces , and hence the size of c T , will vary sensitively with the size of the M ~ cation .
isotropic temperature	thermal motion	An abnormally large isotropic temperature factor indicative of large thermal motion was observed along the bm axis , the only monoclinic axis parallel to a passageway between sodium sites - ( Na 1 and Na 3 ) .
bm axis	monoclinic axis	An abnormally large isotropic temperature factor indicative of large thermal motion was observed along the bm axis , the only monoclinic axis parallel to a passageway between sodium sites - ( Na 1 and Na 3 ) .
sodium sites	Na 1	An abnormally large isotropic temperature factor indicative of large thermal motion was observed along the bm axis , the only monoclinic axis parallel to a passageway between sodium sites - ( Na 1 and Na 3 ) .
x of the lattice parameters	Nal+xZr2SixP3_Xo	Such a conjecture is supported by the anomalous variation with x of the lattice parameters for the system Nal+xZr2SixP3_Xo given in Table 1 .
hexagonal bottlenecks	Na1	The hexagonal bottlenecks between Na1 and Na2 or Na3 positions are formed , as shown in Fig.3 , by three ZrO 6 octahgdral edges alte nating with three tetrahedral edges , one PO 4 and two SiO 4 .
hexagonal bottlenecks	Na2	The hexagonal bottlenecks between Na1 and Na2 or Na3 positions are formed , as shown in Fig.3 , by three ZrO 6 octahgdral edges alte nating with three tetrahedral edges , one PO 4 and two SiO 4 .
hexagonal bottlenecks	ZrO 6 octahgdral edges	The hexagonal bottlenecks between Na1 and Na2 or Na3 positions are formed , as shown in Fig.3 , by three ZrO 6 octahgdral edges alte nating with three tetrahedral edges , one PO 4 and two SiO 4 .
tetrahedral edges	PO 4	The hexagonal bottlenecks between Na1 and Na2 or Na3 positions are formed , as shown in Fig.3 , by three ZrO 6 octahgdral edges alte nating with three tetrahedral edges , one PO 4 and two SiO 4 .
Ag+ ions	Ag-O bonds	The color of Ag3Zr2Si2POI2 , on the other hand , is light yellow , indicating that at least some of the Ag+ ions have an appreciable covalent contribution to some Ag-O bonds .
Ag3Zr2Si2POI2	Ag+ ions	The color of Ag3Zr2Si2POI2 , on the other hand , is light yellow , indicating that at least some of the Ag+ ions have an appreciable covalent contribution to some Ag-O bonds .
H20	alkali ion transport	In general , such structures are plagued by the fact that the interstitial space may accept , in addition to the alkali ions of interest , small molecules like H20 or Na20 that block alkali ion transport .
alkali ion	alkali ion transport	In general , such structures are plagued by the fact that the interstitial space may accept , in addition to the alkali ions of interest , small molecules like H20 or Na20 that block alkali ion transport .
cell parameters	high enough temperature	The cell parameters obtained from the original 212 , 547 , 759 mixes , which contained an excess of Na20 , were different from those of the single crystal , which was grown from a 212 mix fired for a few hours at a high enough temperature ( 1500 <nUm> ) to drive off excess Na20 .
cell parameters	single crystal	The cell parameters obtained from the original 212 , 547 , 759 mixes , which contained an excess of Na20 , were different from those of the single crystal , which was grown from a 212 mix fired for a few hours at a high enough temperature ( 1500 <nUm> ) to drive off excess Na20 .
cell parameters	Na20	The cell parameters obtained from the original 212 , 547 , 759 mixes , which contained an excess of Na20 , were different from those of the single crystal , which was grown from a 212 mix fired for a few hours at a high enough temperature ( 1500 <nUm> ) to drive off excess Na20 .
single crystal	Na20	The single crystal data gave no evidence of excess Na20 .
Na3Zr2Si PO12	M+ ion transport	In Na3Zr2Si PO12 me_ bottleneck to M+ ion transport is a hexagon with a shortest Na-O contact of 2.475 A .
Na3Zr2Si PO12	Na-O contact	In Na3Zr2Si PO12 me_ bottleneck to M+ ion transport is a hexagon with a shortest Na-O contact of 2.475 A .
temperature range 65 - 350	the positions of the ions Nal and Na2	According to the experimental data , in the temperature range 65 - 350 <nUm> there is no change in the populations of the positions of the ions Nal and Na2 ( within the limits of error of the measurement ) ( see Table 2 ) .
high temperature factors	Nal site	As a consequence high temperature factors for the Nal site and a low potential barrier for the diffusion from Nal to Na2 are observed .
mixture of sodium metaphosphate	 metal dioxide	A mixture of sodium metaphosphate ( 12.5 g , BritishDrug Houses , p.a. ) and metal dioxide was heated in a platinum crucible for 24 h at 12000 <nUm> .
mixture of sodium metaphosphate	heated in a platinum crucible	A mixture of sodium metaphosphate ( 12.5 g , BritishDrug Houses , p.a. ) and metal dioxide was heated in a platinum crucible for 24 h at 12000 <nUm> .
positional parameters	Zr02	During the latter stages of the refinements , the positional parameters of the Zr02 were refined with those of the NASICON fixed .
refinements	positional parameters	During the latter stages of the refinements , the positional parameters of the Zr02 were refined with those of the NASICON fixed .
sodium hydrogen sulphate	platinum crucible	The residue , insoluble in water , was in turn fused with sodium hydrogen sulphate in a platinum crucible .
residue	water	The residue , insoluble in water , was in turn fused with sodium hydrogen sulphate in a platinum crucible .
residue	sodium hydrogen sulphate	The residue , insoluble in water , was in turn fused with sodium hydrogen sulphate in a platinum crucible .
superstructure	ZrP2072	In connection with an investigation now in progress of the detailed superstructure of ZrP2072 it was found of interest to analyze the atomic arrangement of zirconium phosphates less complex in structure .
groups 03Zr03Na03Zr03	atomic arrangement	The groups 03Zr03Na03Zr03 thus formed may be considered as major structural units of the atomic arrangement .
structural units	atomic arrangement	The groups 03Zr03Na03Zr03 thus formed may be considered as major structural units of the atomic arrangement .
oxygen atom	PO4 group	Every oxygen atom thus belongs simultaneously within a PO4 group and a Zr06 group .
oxygen atom	Zr06 group	Every oxygen atom thus belongs simultaneously within a PO4 group and a Zr06 group .
oxygen atom	PO4 tetrahedron	The longer Mo-O bonds correspond to the oxygen atom ( 1 ) common to a PO4 tetrahedron , a MoO6 octahedron , and a NaO6 trigonal antiprism .
oxygen atom	MoO6 octahedron	The longer Mo-O bonds correspond to the oxygen atom ( 1 ) common to a PO4 tetrahedron , a MoO6 octahedron , and a NaO6 trigonal antiprism .
Mo-O bonds	oxygen atom	The longer Mo-O bonds correspond to the oxygen atom ( 1 ) common to a PO4 tetrahedron , a MoO6 octahedron , and a NaO6 trigonal antiprism .
oxygen atom	MoO6 octahedron	The shorter Mo-O bonds correspond to the oxygen atom ( 2 ) shared by a PO4 tetrahedron and a MoO6 octahedron .
Mo-O bonds	oxygen atom	The shorter Mo-O bonds correspond to the oxygen atom ( 2 ) shared by a PO4 tetrahedron and a MoO6 octahedron .
Ionic conductivity measurements	Na2.5Zr1.8Sc0.2Si1.3P1.7O12	Ionic conductivity measurements and data analysis were performed on the Na2.5Zr1.8Sc0.2Si1.3P1.7O12 sample following previously described procedures .
heating	a-zirconium phosphate	ZrP2O7 was prepared by heating a-zirconium phosphate , Zr(HPO4)2 H2O ( prepared from Hffree ZrOCl2 8H2O , spec.pure ) at 900<nUm> for 6 hr ( 14 ) .
ZrP2O7	Zr(HPO4)2 H2O	ZrP2O7 was prepared by heating a-zirconium phosphate , Zr(HPO4)2 H2O ( prepared from Hffree ZrOCl2 8H2O , spec.pure ) at 900<nUm> for 6 hr ( 14 ) .
Widening of the passageways	conductivity	Firstly , Widening of the passageways between the cavities as the larger S14 + replaces P 5 + causes an enhancement of the conductivity .
Widening of the passageways	cavities	Firstly , Widening of the passageways between the cavities as the larger S14 + replaces P 5 + causes an enhancement of the conductivity .
cavities	S14 +	Firstly , Widening of the passageways between the cavities as the larger S14 + replaces P 5 + causes an enhancement of the conductivity .
positional and population parameters	O( 1' )	Unlike those of atom Na(2') , the positional and population parameters of O( 1' ) show apparent correlations with temperature .
positional and population parameters	temperature	Unlike those of atom Na(2') , the positional and population parameters of O( 1' ) show apparent correlations with temperature .
thermal parameters	sodium atom	The anomalously large thermal parameters suggest that the sodium atom is mobile .
Na site	oxygen positions	Kohler and Schulz have reported an interstitial Na site correlated with split oxygen positions for the composition Na3.2Zr1.8Si1.4P1.6O17 .
Na site	Na3.2Zr1.8Si1.4P1.6O17	Kohler and Schulz have reported an interstitial Na site correlated with split oxygen positions for the composition Na3.2Zr1.8Si1.4P1.6O17 .
refined population	atom O(1')	The refined population of atom O(1') decreases steadily from 26 <nUm> through 300 <nUm> and then appears to level off .
Na(2')	4 O(2) atoms	By contrast Na(2') is in 6-fold coordination consisting of 4 O(2) atoms and two O(1) / O(1') atoms .
Na(2')	6-fold coordination	By contrast Na(2') is in 6-fold coordination consisting of 4 O(2) atoms and two O(1) / O(1') atoms .
niobium phosphate	Na0.5Nb2P3O12	A new niobium phosphate Na0.5Nb2P3O12 , with the Nasicon structure has been isolated .
Na0.5Nb2P3O12	Nasicon structure	A new niobium phosphate Na0.5Nb2P3O12 , with the Nasicon structure has been isolated .
nasicon structure	Nao.5Nb2P3O12	We report here on the synthesis and crystal structure of a new niobium phosphate with the nasicon structure Nao.5Nb2P3O12 .
crystal structure	niobium phosphate	We report here on the synthesis and crystal structure of a new niobium phosphate with the nasicon structure Nao.5Nb2P3O12 .
The niobium atom	octahedron	The niobium atom is off centered in its octahedron of about 0.07 A along c , leading to tow sets of Nb-O distances significantly different at 3A , .
Nb-O bonds	Nb atoms	The Nb-O bonds ( Table 4 ) are longer than in Nb2P3O12 accordingly to the mean valence of the Nb atoms which is about 4.25 here instead of 4.5 in the empty compound .
distances	Nb2P3O12	These distances and angles are equal in the limit of 3A to those of Nb2P3O12 .
angles	Nb2P3O12	These distances and angles are equal in the limit of 3A to those of Nb2P3O12 .
Single crystals	NaNb2P3O12	Single crystals were prepared from mixtures of composition NaNb2P3O12 .
structure of this oxide	single crystal	The structure of this oxide on single crystal and compared to that of the empty Nasicon , NbzP3O12 recently has been detemained from a X-ray diffraction study determined ( 14 ) .
NbzP3O12	X-ray diffraction	The structure of this oxide on single crystal and compared to that of the empty Nasicon , NbzP3O12 recently has been detemained from a X-ray diffraction study determined ( 14 ) .
sodium site	R = 0.033	It must be pointed out that the refinement of the atomic parameters and the anisotropic thermal factors was , in a first step , carried out for a fully occupation of the sodium site ( x = 1 ) , leading to R = 0.033 , Rw = 0.0395 and Beq ( Na ) = 4.4 .
sodium site	Rw = 0.0395	It must be pointed out that the refinement of the atomic parameters and the anisotropic thermal factors was , in a first step , carried out for a fully occupation of the sodium site ( x = 1 ) , leading to R = 0.033 , Rw = 0.0395 and Beq ( Na ) = 4.4 .
refinement	atomic parameters	It must be pointed out that the refinement of the atomic parameters and the anisotropic thermal factors was , in a first step , carried out for a fully occupation of the sodium site ( x = 1 ) , leading to R = 0.033 , Rw = 0.0395 and Beq ( Na ) = 4.4 .
Rietveld method	structures	The Rietveld method ( 8,9,10 ) was originally developed for the refinement of structures from neutron diffraction data , but it had been extended and applied ( 11,12,13 ) using powder x-ray diffraction data , and so solving the structure of those compounds that can not be synthesized in the form of single crystals .
Rietveld method	powder x-ray diffraction	The Rietveld method ( 8,9,10 ) was originally developed for the refinement of structures from neutron diffraction data , but it had been extended and applied ( 11,12,13 ) using powder x-ray diffraction data , and so solving the structure of those compounds that can not be synthesized in the form of single crystals .
structures	neutron diffraction	The Rietveld method ( 8,9,10 ) was originally developed for the refinement of structures from neutron diffraction data , but it had been extended and applied ( 11,12,13 ) using powder x-ray diffraction data , and so solving the structure of those compounds that can not be synthesized in the form of single crystals .
tin dioxide	molten sodium metaphosphate	Slobodyanik et al. in 1981 studied the reaction of tin dioxide with molten sodium metaphosphate finding that the complete conversion of tin dioxide into NaSn2(PO4)3 at 1000-1100 <nUm> took about 20 h .
molten sodium metaphosphate	NaSn2(PO4)3	Slobodyanik et al. in 1981 studied the reaction of tin dioxide with molten sodium metaphosphate finding that the complete conversion of tin dioxide into NaSn2(PO4)3 at 1000-1100 <nUm> took about 20 h .
Sn(IV)	NaSn2(PO4)3	This change divides solid solutions in two parts , one part rich in Ti(IV) , x < 1 , with a similar behavior that of the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 , and another part rich in Sn(IV) , x > 1 , with the behavior similar that of the compound NaSn2(PO4)3 .
Ti(IV)	NaTi2(PO4)3	This change divides solid solutions in two parts , one part rich in Ti(IV) , x < 1 , with a similar behavior that of the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 , and another part rich in Sn(IV) , x > 1 , with the behavior similar that of the compound NaSn2(PO4)3 .
solid solutions	NaSn2(PO4)3	This change divides solid solutions in two parts , one part rich in Ti(IV) , x < 1 , with a similar behavior that of the compound NaTi2(PO4)3 , and another part rich in Sn(IV) , x > 1 , with the behavior similar that of the compound NaSn2(PO4)3 .
oxygen oId	octahedron TiO6	It appears that the oxygen oId belongs simultaneously to an octahedron TiO6 and to a tetrahedron PO4 , while the oxygen O2a belongs to three polyhedra ( NaO6 , TiO6 and PO4 ) so it shows a lesser degree of freedom .
oxygen oId	tetrahedron PO4	It appears that the oxygen oId belongs simultaneously to an octahedron TiO6 and to a tetrahedron PO4 , while the oxygen O2a belongs to three polyhedra ( NaO6 , TiO6 and PO4 ) so it shows a lesser degree of freedom .
three polyhedra	NaO6	It appears that the oxygen oId belongs simultaneously to an octahedron TiO6 and to a tetrahedron PO4 , while the oxygen O2a belongs to three polyhedra ( NaO6 , TiO6 and PO4 ) so it shows a lesser degree of freedom .
PO4	three polyhedra	It appears that the oxygen oId belongs simultaneously to an octahedron TiO6 and to a tetrahedron PO4 , while the oxygen O2a belongs to three polyhedra ( NaO6 , TiO6 and PO4 ) so it shows a lesser degree of freedom .
O1	polyhedron O6	PO4 distorts mainly because of the O1 that build up the prismatic polyhedron O6 .
PO4	O1	PO4 distorts mainly because of the O1 that build up the prismatic polyhedron O6 .
High temperature high resolution neutron diffraction	NaSn2(PO4) 3	High temperature high resolution neutron diffraction study of the crystal chemistry of NaSn2(PO4) 3 has been completed , at four different temperatures , applying the Rietveld method to the experimental neutron diffraction profile of a synthetic crystalline powder .
Rietveld method	experimental neutron diffraction profile	High temperature high resolution neutron diffraction study of the crystal chemistry of NaSn2(PO4) 3 has been completed , at four different temperatures , applying the Rietveld method to the experimental neutron diffraction profile of a synthetic crystalline powder .
heat treatment	minor phases	The samples with x = 0 , NaTi2(PO4) 3 , and x = 2 , NaSn2(PO4) 3 , subjected to the same heat treatment also contain these major and minor phases depending on its composition .
NaTi2(PO4) 3	minor phases	The samples with x = 0 , NaTi2(PO4) 3 , and x = 2 , NaSn2(PO4) 3 , subjected to the same heat treatment also contain these major and minor phases depending on its composition .
O-M-O bond angles	Ti4+ and Zr4+	And so , the bigger rigidity of the O-M-O bond angles in the case of Ti4+ and Zr4+ than in the case of Sn4+ , is the driving force that avoids the phase transition in the two first cases .
O-M-O bond angles	phase transition	And so , the bigger rigidity of the O-M-O bond angles in the case of Ti4+ and Zr4+ than in the case of Sn4+ , is the driving force that avoids the phase transition in the two first cases .
O-Sn-O	packed structure below the transition point	In the case of Sn4+ , it is easier to bend the O-Sn-O and Sn-O-P bonds to get a somewhat closer packed structure below the transition point .
Sn4+	Sn-O-P bonds	In the case of Sn4+ , it is easier to bend the O-Sn-O and Sn-O-P bonds to get a somewhat closer packed structure below the transition point .
low temperature form	torsions	In the low temperature form of the Sn material , both SnO6 suffer different and opposite torsions .
low temperature form	Sn material	In the low temperature form of the Sn material , both SnO6 suffer different and opposite torsions .
Na1+xZr2 - xInx(PO4)3	In3+	For Na1+xZr2 - xInx(PO4)3 series the same mechanism took place , but as In3+ is larger than Zr4+ the O(1) movement was not counteracted and a large a-axis increase was measured .
Na1+xZr2 - xInx(PO4)3	Zr4+	For Na1+xZr2 - xInx(PO4)3 series the same mechanism took place , but as In3+ is larger than Zr4+ the O(1) movement was not counteracted and a large a-axis increase was measured .
O(1)	a-axis	For Na1+xZr2 - xInx(PO4)3 series the same mechanism took place , but as In3+ is larger than Zr4+ the O(1) movement was not counteracted and a large a-axis increase was measured .
Zr4+	ionic radius	Among the different possible M3+ cations , scandium Sc3+ which exhibits the closest similarity with Zr4+ ( empty d levels and essentially identical ionic radius ) is especially interesting and was consequently examined very early .
Sc3+	ionic radius	Among the different possible M3+ cations , scandium Sc3+ which exhibits the closest similarity with Zr4+ ( empty d levels and essentially identical ionic radius ) is especially interesting and was consequently examined very early .
Sc3+	d levels	Among the different possible M3+ cations , scandium Sc3+ which exhibits the closest similarity with Zr4+ ( empty d levels and essentially identical ionic radius ) is especially interesting and was consequently examined very early .
NaSn2 (PO4)3	phase transition	NaSn2 (PO4)3 presents a fast and reversible second order phase transition about 860 K ( 1 ) .
SnO6	two- fold axis	In the low temperature form of the Sn material , both SnO6 ( no longer related by the two- fold axis ) behaves very differently .
low temperature	SnO6	In the low temperature form of the Sn material , both SnO6 ( no longer related by the two- fold axis ) behaves very differently .
Sn material	SnO6	In the low temperature form of the Sn material , both SnO6 ( no longer related by the two- fold axis ) behaves very differently .
structure determinations	temperatures	One crystal was selected and structure determinations were performed at several temperatures and various levels of T1 abundance .
structure determinations	T1 abundance	One crystal was selected and structure determinations were performed at several temperatures and various levels of T1 abundance .
SOF	TI	Then the refinement was performed with a free varying site occupation factor ( SOF ) for TI .
T1 Us3	U33	As can be seen from Fig.2 the T1 Us3 vs. T curve does not intersect the U33 axis near zero within the margin of error .
T1	U33	The refinement with T1 at 0,0,0 leads to an U33 for the T1 atom of 0.78 , indicative for high thermal vibrations or static disorder .
T1	0,0,0	The refinement with T1 at 0,0,0 leads to an U33 for the T1 atom of 0.78 , indicative for high thermal vibrations or static disorder .
U33	T1 atom	The refinement with T1 at 0,0,0 leads to an U33 for the T1 atom of 0.78 , indicative for high thermal vibrations or static disorder .
T1 atom	0.78	The refinement with T1 at 0,0,0 leads to an U33 for the T1 atom of 0.78 , indicative for high thermal vibrations or static disorder .
T1	high thermal vibrations	The refinement with T1 at 0,0,0 leads to an U33 for the T1 atom of 0.78 , indicative for high thermal vibrations or static disorder .
decreasing temperature	U33	With decreasing temperature the U33 is reduced by about 35 % to 0.51(5) .
U33	35 %	With decreasing temperature the U33 is reduced by about 35 % to 0.51(5) .
z coordinate	z = 0.123	The refinement with a free varying z coordinate led to z = 0.123 ( i ) and an U33 of 0.12(1) .
U33	0.12(1)	The refinement with a free varying z coordinate led to z = 0.123 ( i ) and an U33 of 0.12(1) .
refinement	z coordinate	The refinement with a free varying z coordinate led to z = 0.123 ( i ) and an U33 of 0.12(1) .
temperature	one dimensional statical disorder	It is noteworthy that with decreasing temperature and with decreasing T1 abundance the one dimensional statical disorder increases .
T1	single crystal	The T1 abundance was adjusted in one single crystal used for all structure investigations by this redox reaction .
T1	redox reaction	The T1 abundance was adjusted in one single crystal used for all structure investigations by this redox reaction .
T1	reaction times	A more rigorous investigation revealed that no crystals free of T1 can be obtained even after long reaction times or with boiling agent .
T1	boiling agent	A more rigorous investigation revealed that no crystals free of T1 can be obtained even after long reaction times or with boiling agent .
refinement	Ti6Se8	After refinement of the host matrix Ti6Se8 the highest difference electron density peak was found at 0 0 0.12 , where T1 was placed .
electron density peak	0 0 0.12	After refinement of the host matrix Ti6Se8 the highest difference electron density peak was found at 0 0 0.12 , where T1 was placed .
T1 sites	U3s components	Calculations with splitted T1 sites or with T1 at different z-coordinates led to no better results or to clearly higher U3s components .
T1	z-coordinates	Calculations with splitted T1 sites or with T1 at different z-coordinates led to no better results or to clearly higher U3s components .
U33 component	T1	The U33 component of T1 reaches 0.71(11) with T1 at z = 0 .
U33 component	0.71(11)	The U33 component of T1 reaches 0.71(11) with T1 at z = 0 .
T1	z = 0	The U33 component of T1 reaches 0.71(11) with T1 at z = 0 .
Ti-Ti bonding properties	T1	The Ti-Ti bonding properties are significantly influenced by both the temperature and T1 abundance .
top of the crystal	T1	At the top of the crystal only little T1 is present which increases towards the seed end .
0.5 mg	I2 / ml CH3CN	For comparison other crystals were investigated before and after the reaction with a solution of 0.5 mg I2 / ml CH3CN .
T1 content	composition TI0.65Ti6Se8	After 25 min reaction time the T1 content was reduced by about 20 % leading to the composition TI0.65Ti6Se8 .
25 min	reaction	After 25 min reaction time the T1 content was reduced by about 20 % leading to the composition TI0.65Ti6Se8 .
V6S8 host material	redox agent	The V6S8 host material does not react with the redox agent suggesting that the vanadium sulfide is not implicated in the reaction .
reactivity	TlxTi6Se8	This clearly demonstrates that the reactivity of TlxTi6Se8 is different compared to the isomorphous vanadium compound .
U33 component	thermal vibrations	If the observed U33 component would be due to thermal vibrations its value should tend to zero when extrapolating to 0 K .
U33 component	0 K	If the observed U33 component would be due to thermal vibrations its value should tend to zero when extrapolating to 0 K .
z coordinate	U33 component	In the final stages of the refinement the z coordinate was allowed to vary freely resulting in an U33 component at 300 K of 0.11 .
refinement	U33 component	In the final stages of the refinement the z coordinate was allowed to vary freely resulting in an U33 component at 300 K of 0.11 .
refinement	300 K	In the final stages of the refinement the z coordinate was allowed to vary freely resulting in an U33 component at 300 K of 0.11 .
U33 component	decreasing temperature	The U33 component significantly decreases with decreasing temperature reaching 0.03 at 100 K .
U33 component	100 K	The U33 component significantly decreases with decreasing temperature reaching 0.03 at 100 K .
TiSe6 octahedra	TI - rich compounds	The TiSe6 octahedra seem to be less distorted compared to the TI - rich compounds .
295 K	Ti - Tiintra	At 295 K the Ti - Tiintra separation is only 1.3 % smaller than the Ti-Tilnter distance , the absolute value of the intra bonds being larger than in the T1 rich compound .
Tl0.64Ti6Se8	lattice parameters	Tl0.64Ti6Se8 : The lattice parameters as well as the c / a ratio are identical to those obtained for the T1 rich compound .
Tl0.64Ti6Se8	c / a	Tl0.64Ti6Se8 : The lattice parameters as well as the c / a ratio are identical to those obtained for the T1 rich compound .
lattice parameters	T1 rich compound	Tl0.64Ti6Se8 : The lattice parameters as well as the c / a ratio are identical to those obtained for the T1 rich compound .
Tl0.64Ti6Se8	T1 rich compound	Tl0.64Ti6Se8 : The lattice parameters as well as the c / a ratio are identical to those obtained for the T1 rich compound .
T10.23Ti6Se8 : As	lattice parameters	T10.23Ti6Se8 : As can be seen from table 1 the lattice parameters change only slightly compared to the T1 rich compound .
T10.23Ti6Se8 : As	T1 rich compound	T10.23Ti6Se8 : As can be seen from table 1 the lattice parameters change only slightly compared to the T1 rich compound .
thermal expansion	lattice	As in the T1 rich compound the thermal expansion of the lattice is markedly anisotropic .
anisotropy	decreasing temperature	Contrary to TlO.8Ti6Se8 the anisotropy significantly increases with decreasing temperature .
structure	composition TI0.23Ti6Se8	In Fig.3 SEM micrographs are shown of the crystal used for the structure determinations with the composition TI0.23Ti6Se8 .
host lattice	Ti6Se8	In all cases the T1 content of the crystal was determined in the following way : the host lattice Ti6Se8 was first refined isotropically .
U33 / U11	100 K	Nevertheless , taking advantage of the ratio U33 / U11 the disorder is more distinct at 100 K .
T1 contents	0.80(4)	The final T1 contents obtained in this way are 0.80(4) , 0.65(4) and 0.23(4) , respectively .
T1 contents	0.65(4)	The final T1 contents obtained in this way are 0.80(4) , 0.65(4) and 0.23(4) , respectively .
internal R-values	T1 poor compound	The relatively high internal R-values of the datasets of the T1 poor compound are due to the macroscopic damage of the crystal during the chemical reaction .
internal R-values	macroscopic damage	The relatively high internal R-values of the datasets of the T1 poor compound are due to the macroscopic damage of the crystal during the chemical reaction .
one dimensionality	Ti-Ti bonds	Whereas in the T1 rich sample the one dimensionality of the Ti-Ti bonds decreases with decreasing temperature the opposite trend is observed in the T1 poor compound .
Ti-Ti bonds	decreasing temperature	Whereas in the T1 rich sample the one dimensionality of the Ti-Ti bonds decreases with decreasing temperature the opposite trend is observed in the T1 poor compound .
ionic radii	T1+	This distance is smaller than the sum of the ionic radii of T1+ and Se2 - indicative for a partially covalent character of the Tl-Se bond .
ternary T1	transition metal selenides	In other ternary T1 containing transition metal selenides with the stoichiometry TIxT5Se8 ( T = Ti,V,Cr ; x near 1 ) the TI-Se bond lengths vary from 3.344 to 3.635 .
TI-Se bond lengths	3.344	In other ternary T1 containing transition metal selenides with the stoichiometry TIxT5Se8 ( T = Ti,V,Cr ; x near 1 ) the TI-Se bond lengths vary from 3.344 to 3.635 .
Metastable derivatives	nonstoichiometric title compound	Metastable derivatives of the nonstoichiometric title compound can be obtained by a chemical leaching procedure with the lower phase limit extended down to x = 0.23 an TlxTi6Se8 .
phase	TlxTi6Se8	Metastable derivatives of the nonstoichiometric title compound can be obtained by a chemical leaching procedure with the lower phase limit extended down to x = 0.23 an TlxTi6Se8 .
phase	x = 0.23	Metastable derivatives of the nonstoichiometric title compound can be obtained by a chemical leaching procedure with the lower phase limit extended down to x = 0.23 an TlxTi6Se8 .
TlxTi6Se8	I2 / CH3CN	SEM and EDA gave evidence that the reaction of TlxTi6Se8 with I2 / CH3CN is best described as a redox reaction in which the host lattice is involved .
lattice parameters	indexing method	The purpose of the present work has been to study the evolution in the lattice parameters by indexing method , for the compositions NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4) 3 , with x = 0 to 2 , in order to try to explain the irregularity observed .
NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4) 3	x = 0 to 2	The purpose of the present work has been to study the evolution in the lattice parameters by indexing method , for the compositions NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4) 3 , with x = 0 to 2 , in order to try to explain the irregularity observed .
crystal structures	six phases	The crystal structures of the six phases , Na1+xTi2-xAlx(PO4)3 ( x = 0 , 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.6 , 0.8 , 0.9 ) , were refined by the Rietveld method using the GSAS suit of programs .
Na1+xTi2-xAlx(PO4)3	Rietveld method	The crystal structures of the six phases , Na1+xTi2-xAlx(PO4)3 ( x = 0 , 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.6 , 0.8 , 0.9 ) , were refined by the Rietveld method using the GSAS suit of programs .
NaSnTi(PO4)3	Rietveld method	The structure of the compound with x = 1 ( NaSnTi(PO4)3 ) has been determined applying the Rietveld method to deconvolute the powder x-ray diffraction profile .
NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3	ceramic method	The compositions NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3 , with x = 0 , 0.5 , 0.8 , 1 , 1.2 , 1.5 , and 2 , were prepared following the ceramic method .
NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3	ceramic method	The variation of the lattice parameters with composition in NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3 ( 0 < x < 2 ) solid solutions , prepared by ceramic method , has been studied .
lattice parameters	NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3	The variation of the lattice parameters with composition in NaTi2 - xSnx(PO4)3 ( 0 < x < 2 ) solid solutions , prepared by ceramic method , has been studied .
NaM2IV(PO4)3	NZP type structure	Compounds NaM2IV(PO4)3 with NZP type structure present a different behavior depending on the nature of MIv .
thermal expansion	NaTi2(PO4) 3	Finally , the thermal expansion data of NaTi2(PO4) 3 has been applied in order to check Alamo  proportional distortion model ( 11 ) .
NaTiSn(PO4) 3	Rietveld method	After that , the x-ray diffraction profiles for the intermediate composition , NaTiSn(PO4) 3 , was deconvoluted following the Rietveld method .
Rietveld refinement	NaTiSn(PO4)3	The Rietveld refinement of the sample NaTiSn(PO4)3 yielded the hexagonal lattice parameters .
NaTiSn(PO4)3	hexagonal lattice parameters	The Rietveld refinement of the sample NaTiSn(PO4)3 yielded the hexagonal lattice parameters .
compound NaTiSn(PO4)3	x-ray diffraction	The study of the compound NaTiSn(PO4)3 by x-ray diffraction does n't show the existence of a superstructure , this results being confirmed by electrons diffraction .
Mo2O9	Mo3P5SiO19	A confacial bioctahedral Mo2O9 cluster with a Mo-Mo bond has been observed in Mo3P5SiO19 ( 12 ) .
Mo2O9	Mo-Mo bond	A confacial bioctahedral Mo2O9 cluster with a Mo-Mo bond has been observed in Mo3P5SiO19 ( 12 ) .
NaMo2P3O12	single crystal	A new Mo(IV) phosphate , NaMo2P3O12 , has been discovered and characterized by means of single crystal X-ray diffraction .
Mo(IV) phosphate	NaMo2P3O12	A new Mo(IV) phosphate , NaMo2P3O12 , has been discovered and characterized by means of single crystal X-ray diffraction .
NaMo2P3O12	MoP3SiO11	NaMo2P3O12 can be deduced from MoP3SiO11 by simple replacement of the Si2O7 groups with NaO6 trigonal antiprisms , and the P2O7 groups with PO4 tetrahedra .
NaMo2P3O12	Si2O7 groups with NaO6 trigonal antiprisms	NaMo2P3O12 can be deduced from MoP3SiO11 by simple replacement of the Si2O7 groups with NaO6 trigonal antiprisms , and the P2O7 groups with PO4 tetrahedra .
MoP3SiO11	P2O7 groups	The structure of NaMo2P3O12 is closely related to that of MoP3SiO11 , which is built of corner sharing Mo(III)O6 octahedra , P2O7 groups , and Si2O7 groups .
MoP3SiO11	Si2O7 groups	The structure of NaMo2P3O12 is closely related to that of MoP3SiO11 , which is built of corner sharing Mo(III)O6 octahedra , P2O7 groups , and Si2O7 groups .
NaMO2P3O12	PO4 tetrahedra	The framework of NaMO2P3O12 is built of MoO6 octahedra , NaO6 trigonal antiprisms , and PO4 tetrahedra .
NaMO2P3O12	MoO6 octahedra	The framework of NaMO2P3O12 is built of MoO6 octahedra , NaO6 trigonal antiprisms , and PO4 tetrahedra .
phosphates	Mo(IV)	Since phosphates containing Mo(IV) only have been relatively rare , efforts have been made to add new members to the family of M = Mo(IV)
Na2Mo3P4O17	sealed fused silica tube	The title compound was first obtained as black chunky crystals in an attempt to prepare Na2Mo3P4O17 in a sealed fused silica tube at 1000 <nUm> for 4 days .
Na2Mo3P4O17	1000 <nUm>	The title compound was first obtained as black chunky crystals in an attempt to prepare Na2Mo3P4O17 in a sealed fused silica tube at 1000 <nUm> for 4 days .
Na Mo2P3O12	PO4 tetrahedra	As shown in Fig. 1 the framework of Na Mo2P3O12 is composed of corner sharing MoO6 octahedra , NaO6 trigonal antiprisms , and PO4 tetrahedra .
Na Mo2P3O12	MoO6 octahedra	As shown in Fig. 1 the framework of Na Mo2P3O12 is composed of corner sharing MoO6 octahedra , NaO6 trigonal antiprisms , and PO4 tetrahedra .
PO4 tetrahedra	slab unit	The framework of the sodium compound is formed of slabs parallel to the ( 1 ) plane , which are stacked along the c-axis and mutually linked in such a way that the three PO4 tetrahedra in a slab unit share their corners with the MoO6 octahedra and the NaO6 trigonal antiprisms of an adjacent slab .
Cs3Mo5P6OZ	Mo4O4	For example , Cs3Mo5P6OZ ( 9 ) , Cs3MobP3O16 ( 10 ) , and CS3MO5P7O24 ( 11 ) contain cubane like Mo4O4 and Mo4O3P clusters each with six Mo-Mo bonds .
Cs3MobP3O16	Mo4O4	For example , Cs3Mo5P6OZ ( 9 ) , Cs3MobP3O16 ( 10 ) , and CS3MO5P7O24 ( 11 ) contain cubane like Mo4O4 and Mo4O3P clusters each with six Mo-Mo bonds .
CS3MO5P7O24	Mo4O4	For example , Cs3Mo5P6OZ ( 9 ) , Cs3MobP3O16 ( 10 ) , and CS3MO5P7O24 ( 11 ) contain cubane like Mo4O4 and Mo4O3P clusters each with six Mo-Mo bonds .
Cs3Mo5P6OZ	Mo4O3P	For example , Cs3Mo5P6OZ ( 9 ) , Cs3MobP3O16 ( 10 ) , and CS3MO5P7O24 ( 11 ) contain cubane like Mo4O4 and Mo4O3P clusters each with six Mo-Mo bonds .
Cs3MobP3O16	Mo4O3P	For example , Cs3Mo5P6OZ ( 9 ) , Cs3MobP3O16 ( 10 ) , and CS3MO5P7O24 ( 11 ) contain cubane like Mo4O4 and Mo4O3P clusters each with six Mo-Mo bonds .
MoP3SiO11	PO4 tetrahedra	Whereas in MoP3SiO11 , the three PO4 tetrahedra in a slab unit share their corners with the three other PO4 tetrahedra of a neighboring slab .
Rietveld method	NaTi2( PO4)3	In our case , applying the Rietveld method to NaTi2( PO4)3 at different temperatures gives direct information on how the structure changes with the temperature , particularly , how the octahedra TiO6 and the tetrahedra PO4 rotate in the structure and yield a contraction in the a direction .
NaTi2( PO4)3	temperature	In our case , applying the Rietveld method to NaTi2( PO4)3 at different temperatures gives direct information on how the structure changes with the temperature , particularly , how the octahedra TiO6 and the tetrahedra PO4 rotate in the structure and yield a contraction in the a direction .
NaTi2( PO4)3	octahedra TiO6	In our case , applying the Rietveld method to NaTi2( PO4)3 at different temperatures gives direct information on how the structure changes with the temperature , particularly , how the octahedra TiO6 and the tetrahedra PO4 rotate in the structure and yield a contraction in the a direction .
temperature	bonds	Also , the temperature affects not only to the bonds in the Na06 group , but to all other bonds in the crystal as well , and so , the crystal chemistry substitution effect and the thermal expansion effect are not strictly equivalent , although both have a common dependence on the same atom connectivities in this structure .
bonds	Na06 group	Also , the temperature affects not only to the bonds in the Na06 group , but to all other bonds in the crystal as well , and so , the crystal chemistry substitution effect and the thermal expansion effect are not strictly equivalent , although both have a common dependence on the same atom connectivities in this structure .
X-ray diffraction	Na1+xZr2-x(SiO4)x(PO4)3-x	Hazen  structure analysis from high temperature X-ray diffraction on a single crystal of Na1+xZr2-x(SiO4)x(PO4)3-x with x = 0.11 ( 6 ) at the temperatures of 25 <nUm> , 270 <nUm> , 490 <nUm> and 690 <nUm> yielded very similar results .
X-ray diffraction	25 <nUm>	Hazen  structure analysis from high temperature X-ray diffraction on a single crystal of Na1+xZr2-x(SiO4)x(PO4)3-x with x = 0.11 ( 6 ) at the temperatures of 25 <nUm> , 270 <nUm> , 490 <nUm> and 690 <nUm> yielded very similar results .
X-ray diffraction	270 <nUm>	Hazen  structure analysis from high temperature X-ray diffraction on a single crystal of Na1+xZr2-x(SiO4)x(PO4)3-x with x = 0.11 ( 6 ) at the temperatures of 25 <nUm> , 270 <nUm> , 490 <nUm> and 690 <nUm> yielded very similar results .
thermodiffractometric	Na1.8Ti1.2Al0.8(PO4)3	The thermal expansion coefficients were determined from a thermodiffractometric study of Na1.8Ti1.2Al0.8(PO4)3 .
thermal expansion coefficients	Na1.8Ti1.2Al0.8(PO4)3	The thermal expansion coefficients were determined from a thermodiffractometric study of Na1.8Ti1.2Al0.8(PO4)3 .
thermodiffractometric study	Na1.8Ti1.2Al0.8(PO4)3	A thermodiffractometric study for Na1.8Ti1.2Al0.8(PO4)3 was undertaken to characterise this effect .
impedance	Na1.8Ti1.2Al0.8(PO4)3	Some results from the impedance study of Na1.8Ti1.2Al0.8(PO4)3 are shown in Fig. 4 , 5 and 6 .
Ti / Al atoms	octahedral site	The Ti / Al atoms are randomly distributed over the octahedral site of the NASICON framework .
Na1+xTi2 - xAlx(PO4)3	ionic radii	We have chosen the Na1+xTi2 - xAlx(PO4)3 series because of the low cost of the elements , the non harmful nature of the chemicals and the relative similarity of the ionic radii .
Na1+xTi2 - xAlx(PO4)3	xmax = 0.9	The synthesis study showed that the compositional limit in the Na1+xTi2 - xAlx(PO4)3 series is xmax = 0.9 .
side phase	NaAlP2O7	In some syntheses , a minor side phase , NaAlP2O7 , was detected .
Ti / Al composition	octahedral site	The nominal Ti / Al composition was randomly distributed in the octahedral site .
Na3Sc2 ( POD 3	activation energy	ty of Na3Sc2 ( POD 3 crystals revealed two temperature ranges in which there is a change in the activation energy : 50 and 60 and 130 - 180 <nUm> .
activation energy	60	ty of Na3Sc2 ( POD 3 crystals revealed two temperature ranges in which there is a change in the activation energy : 50 and 60 and 130 - 180 <nUm> .
activation energy	50	ty of Na3Sc2 ( POD 3 crystals revealed two temperature ranges in which there is a change in the activation energy : 50 and 60 and 130 - 180 <nUm> .
electrical conductivity	Na3Fe2 ( PO4 ) 3	An analogous temperature dependence of the electrical conductivity was observed for Na3Fe2 ( PO4 ) 3 and Na3Cr2 (PO4)3 [ 2 , 3 ] .
phase transformation	density	It can be confidently stated that for Na3Cr2 (PO4)3 crystals , the phase transformation is also accompanied by an increase in the density of the crystal .
x-ray	Na3Sc2 ( PO4 ) 3	An x-ray structural study of Na3Sc2 ( PO4 ) 3 crystals has been carried out in the temperature range 27 - 350 <nUm> .
x-ray	27 - 350 <nUm>	An x-ray structural study of Na3Sc2 ( PO4 ) 3 crystals has been carried out in the temperature range 27 - 350 <nUm> .
super ion conductors	three dimensional conductivity	We assume that this phenomenon is characteristic of super ion conductors with three dimensional conductivity , in which the transformation to the super ion state leads to a more uniform distribution of the conducting ion in the unit cell of the crystal .
super ion state	conducting ion 	We assume that this phenomenon is characteristic of super ion conductors with three dimensional conductivity , in which the transformation to the super ion state leads to a more uniform distribution of the conducting ion in the unit cell of the crystal .
Thermogravimetric analyses	Na4Zr2Si3O12 crystals	Thermogravimetric analyses obtained on Na4Zr2Si3O12 crystals indicate constant weight from RT to 450 C , 1 % weight loss between 450 and 650 <nUm> and constant from 650 to 1250 <nUm> .
Thermogravimetric analyses	450 C	Thermogravimetric analyses obtained on Na4Zr2Si3O12 crystals indicate constant weight from RT to 450 C , 1 % weight loss between 450 and 650 <nUm> and constant from 650 to 1250 <nUm> .
Thermogravimetric analyses	650 <nUm>	Thermogravimetric analyses obtained on Na4Zr2Si3O12 crystals indicate constant weight from RT to 450 C , 1 % weight loss between 450 and 650 <nUm> and constant from 650 to 1250 <nUm> .
Na4Zr2Si012	emission spectroscopy	The resultant equidimensional crystals of Na4Zr2Si012 approximately 1 mm across opposite faces , were found by emission spectroscopy to contain only 20-100 ppm K .
conductivity	Na4Zr2P3O12	The conductivity of pure Na4Zr2P3O12 at 300 C is 3.5 x 10 (ohm cm)-1 .
conductivity	300 C	The conductivity of pure Na4Zr2P3O12 at 300 C is 3.5 x 10 (ohm cm)-1 .
ZrO6 octahedra	O3ZrO3NaO3ZrO3	NaO6 and ZrO6 octahedra share faces and are arranged in triplets O3ZrO3NaO3ZrO3 along the c axis .
NaO6	O3ZrO3NaO3ZrO3	NaO6 and ZrO6 octahedra share faces and are arranged in triplets O3ZrO3NaO3ZrO3 along the c axis .
Na1+xZr2SixP3-XO12	Na / S batteries	NASICON ( Na1+xZr2SixP3-XO12 ; 0 < x < 3 ) is a solid solution system and stands for a series of compounds , which are now extensively studied because of their possible application as solid electrolytes in high temperature Na / S batteries ( 1 ) .
NASICON 	Nal x 12 ; 0 < x < 3	NASICON ( Nal x 12 ; 0 < x < 3 ) is one of the technologically important ionic conductors which is considered for application in solid state Na / S batteries ( 1 ) .
NASICON	Si / P ratio	With the new detailed information on the sodium diffusion in NASICON the huge differences in conductivity with change of Si / P ratio can be better understood .
Na3(ScZr)Si1.5P1.5O12	X-ray	fields two of the scandium containing phases , and Na3(ScZr)Si1.5P1.5O12 and Na3Sc0.5Zr1.5Si1.5P1.5O12 , were chosen for X-ray structure studies .
Zr / Sc	occupancy	No sodium atoms were included in the initial model and Zr / Sc and Si / P were assumed to be statistically distributed in their positional sites at full occupancy .
NASICON solid solution	Na1+x+4yZr2-ySixP3-Xo12	On this basis they suggested that the correct formulation for the NASICON solid solution is Na1+x+4yZr2-ySixP3-Xo12 .
Na3.lZrl.78Sil.24Pl.76012	X-ray refinement	The zirconium site occupancy could be completely accounted for as 1.66 Zr + 0.3 Na - 2 Kohler and Schulz ( 13 ) prepared single crystals from which they deduced a stoichiometry of Na3.lZrl.78Sil.24Pl.76012 based upon X-ray refinement and the requirements of charge balance .
cavities	Na4	This similarity occurs even though only three fourths of the cavities are filled in our scandium substituted phase as opposed to all the cavities being filled in the Na4 compound .
Na+ / vacancy ratio	conductivity	Indeed the right Na+ / vacancy ratio for optimum conductivity can be reached spontaneously in stoichiometric materials , the so called Nasicon analogs with general formula Na3M23+(PO4)3
Na(l) ion	octahedron	The Na(l) ion of Table2 is localized outside the octahedron , with a displacement of around 1.5 along the conduction channel , towards the vacant Na(3) site , going through an octahedron face .
conducting ions	Nasicon positions	The relevant distances are given Table 3 and in this low temperature type modification the conducting ions are strongly displaced with respect to their ideal Nasicon positions ( Fig.3 ) except for Na(2) .
low temperature	conducting ions	The relevant distances are given Table 3 and in this low temperature type modification the conducting ions are strongly displaced with respect to their ideal Nasicon positions ( Fig.3 ) except for Na(2) .
phosphate frameworks	TiO6 octahedra	The phosphate frameworks are built of TiO6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra .
NZP type structure	TiO6 octahedra	They have the NZP type structure ; their frameworks are built of TiO6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra , and the alkali metal cations are randomly distributed in extraframework positions M1 .
alkali metal cations 	M1 	They have the NZP type structure ; their frameworks are built of TiO6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra , and the alkali metal cations are randomly distributed in extraframework positions M1 .
three dimensional framework	PO4 tetrahedra	This three dimensional framework is built of PO4 tetrahedra and Cr / CoO6 octahedra sharing corners .
three dimensional framework	CoO6 octahedra	This three dimensional framework is built of PO4 tetrahedra and Cr / CoO6 octahedra sharing corners .
3D network	PO4 tetrahedra	The structure of these materials consists of a 3D network built up of PO4 tetrahedra sharing corners with ABO6 octahedra
heteropolyhedral framework	PO4 tetrahedra	The heteropolyhedral framework is based on a regular alternation , in three dimensions , of corner - sharing PO4 tetrahedra and FeO6 octahedra , constituting so - called lantern units stacked along the c axis .
heteropolyhedral framework	FeO6 octahedra	The heteropolyhedral framework is based on a regular alternation , in three dimensions , of corner - sharing PO4 tetrahedra and FeO6 octahedra , constituting so - called lantern units stacked along the c axis .
NASICON structure	PO4 tetrahedra	The NASICON structure consists of a three dimensional framework of corner sharing MO6 octahedra and PO4 tetrahedra .
M(1)	PO4 tetrahedra	Raman spectra of these phosphates present broad peaks due to the statistical occupation of the sites ( 12c , M(1) and M(2) ) around PO4 tetrahedra .
Raman spectra	phosphates	Raman spectra of these phosphates present broad peaks due to the statistical occupation of the sites ( 12c , M(1) and M(2) ) around PO4 tetrahedra .
three dimensional network	TiO6 octahedra	three dimensional network made up TiO6 octahedra sharing the corners with PO4 tetrahedra .
three dimensional network	PO4 tetrahedra	three dimensional network made up TiO6 octahedra sharing the corners with PO4 tetrahedra .
three dimensional (3D) network	AO6 octahedra	It consists of a three dimensional (3D) network built up of PO4 tetrahedra sharing corners with AO6 octahedra .
crystal structure	Zr06 octahedra	The crystal structure of thus derived may be described in terms of PO4 tetrahedra and Zr06 octahedra which are linked by corners to a three dimensional network .
crystal structure	PO4 tetrahedra	The crystal structure of thus derived may be described in terms of PO4 tetrahedra and Zr06 octahedra which are linked by corners to a three dimensional network .
 c direction	PO4 tetrahedra	The endless columns resulting from this linking are also connected normal to the c direction by the PO4 tetrahedra .
PO4 tetrahedra	P-O distances	PO4 tetrahedra have the classical geometry observed in the monophosphate compounds i.e four equal P-O distances and O-P-O angles close to 109 ( table 3 ) .
NaO6 trigonal antiprism	PO4 tetrahedra	Similarly , each NaO6 trigonal antiprism is linked to six PO4 tetrahedra .
NaMo2P30t2	Moo6 octahedra	The structure of NaMo2P30t2 can be described as strings of Moo6 octahedra and NaOd trigonal antiprisms directed along the c-axis which are linked together through PO4 tetrahedra .
Moo6 octahedra	c-axis	The structure of NaMo2P30t2 can be described as strings of Moo6 octahedra and NaOd trigonal antiprisms directed along the c-axis which are linked together through PO4 tetrahedra .
NaOd trigonal antiprisms	c-axis	The structure of NaMo2P30t2 can be described as strings of Moo6 octahedra and NaOd trigonal antiprisms directed along the c-axis which are linked together through PO4 tetrahedra .
Moo6 octahedra	PO4 tetrahedra	The structure of NaMo2P30t2 can be described as strings of Moo6 octahedra and NaOd trigonal antiprisms directed along the c-axis which are linked together through PO4 tetrahedra .
MoO6 octahedron	PO4 tetrahedra	Each MoO6 octahedron shares its six corners with six PO4 tetrahedra .
anisotropic thermal behaviour	anisotropic NASICON framework	This anisotropic thermal behaviour is typical of the anisotropic NASICON framework and it is due to the thermal behaviour of rigid PO4 tetrahedra and more flexible MO6 octahedra .
thermal behaviour	PO4 tetrahedra	This anisotropic thermal behaviour is typical of the anisotropic NASICON framework and it is due to the thermal behaviour of rigid PO4 tetrahedra and more flexible MO6 octahedra .
thermal behaviour	MO6 octahedra	This anisotropic thermal behaviour is typical of the anisotropic NASICON framework and it is due to the thermal behaviour of rigid PO4 tetrahedra and more flexible MO6 octahedra .
polyhedra	corner	Lenain et al. have proposed that since the two different kinds of polyhedra are linked to each other at every corner , any rotation of the octahedron about the threefold vertical axis is accompanied by a similar rotation of the tetrahedron about the twofold horizontal axis .
polyhedra	corner	Lenain et al. have proposed that since the two different kinds of polyhedra are linked to each other at every corner , any rotation of the octahedron about the threefold vertical axis is accompanied by a similar rotation of the tetrahedron about the twofold horizontal axis .
octahedron	threefold vertical axis	Lenain et al. have proposed that since the two different kinds of polyhedra are linked to each other at every corner , any rotation of the octahedron about the threefold vertical axis is accompanied by a similar rotation of the tetrahedron about the twofold horizontal axis .
rotation of the octahedron	threefold vertical axis	Lenain et al. have proposed that since the two different kinds of polyhedra are linked to each other at every corner , any rotation of the octahedron about the threefold vertical axis is accompanied by a similar rotation of the tetrahedron about the twofold horizontal axis .
rotation of the octahedron	rotation of the tetrahedron	Lenain et al. have proposed that since the two different kinds of polyhedra are linked to each other at every corner , any rotation of the octahedron about the threefold vertical axis is accompanied by a similar rotation of the tetrahedron about the twofold horizontal axis .
sodium Nal site	c axis	The sodium Nal site ( point symmetry 3 ) is a very distorted octahedron , elongated parallel to the c axis .
Na-O2 bonds	2.556	Six symmetrically equivalent Na-O2 bonds are 2.556 Along ; six adjacent O2-Nal-O2 angles are 66 <nUm> and six are 114 <nUm> , compared to the ideal 90 <nUm> values of a regular octahedron .
O2-Nal-O2 angles	66 <nUm>	Six symmetrically equivalent Na-O2 bonds are 2.556 Along ; six adjacent O2-Nal-O2 angles are 66 <nUm> and six are 114 <nUm> , compared to the ideal 90 <nUm> values of a regular octahedron .
ZrO6 octahedra	octahedron	The fact that the distortions in the TiO6 and ZrO6 octahedra are lower than those present in the SnO6 octahedron , together with the ability of this octahedron to increase its distortion below the transition point are the key to understand the chemical nature of this phase transition .
ZrO6 octahedra	octahedron	The fact that the distortions in the TiO6 and ZrO6 octahedra are lower than those present in the SnO6 octahedron , together with the ability of this octahedron to increase its distortion below the transition point are the key to understand the chemical nature of this phase transition .
TiO6	octahedron	The fact that the distortions in the TiO6 and ZrO6 octahedra are lower than those present in the SnO6 octahedron , together with the ability of this octahedron to increase its distortion below the transition point are the key to understand the chemical nature of this phase transition .
TiO6	octahedron	The fact that the distortions in the TiO6 and ZrO6 octahedra are lower than those present in the SnO6 octahedron , together with the ability of this octahedron to increase its distortion below the transition point are the key to understand the chemical nature of this phase transition .
chemical nature	phase transition	The fact that the distortions in the TiO6 and ZrO6 octahedra are lower than those present in the SnO6 octahedron , together with the ability of this octahedron to increase its distortion below the transition point are the key to understand the chemical nature of this phase transition .
TiO6	temperature	TiO6 becomes a more perfect octahedron increasing the temperature .
TiO6	octahedron	TiO6 becomes a more perfect octahedron increasing the temperature .
O2-Na-O2 angle	63.4 <nUm>	The Na-O2 distance increases and the O2-Na-O2 angle decreases from 65.6 at 25 <nUm> to 63.4 <nUm> at 800 <nUm> , so the NaO6 octahedron distort more , away from 90 <nUm> , the angle of the perfect octahedron .
temperature	parameter	An increase in the temperature results in a decrease in the parameter a of their cells and increase in the parameter , which is due to the correlated rota tion of the tetrahedra and octahedra around the c axis typical of NZP compounds .
temperature	NZP compounds	An increase in the temperature results in a decrease in the parameter a of their cells and increase in the parameter , which is due to the correlated rota tion of the tetrahedra and octahedra around the c axis typical of NZP compounds .
ZrO 6 octahedra	PO 4 tetrahedra	Each ZrO 6 octahedra is connected to six PO 4 tetrahedra , while each tetrahedra is linked to four octahedra .
interatomic bonds	tetrahedra	In this model , it was assumed that the distances : RP1 , RP2 , RZ1 , RZ2 and DC would keep constant and that the equilibrium from the interatomic bonds would make any distortions in the octahedra and the tetrahedra proportional each other ( U ) with the residual effect ( T ) due to the fact that the structure can not be built by perfect octahedra and tetrahedra .
P-O bonds	tetrahedron	The four P-O bonds in the near regular tetrahedron ( point symmetry2 ) range from 1.524 - 1.525 A , with O-P-O angles deviating by no more than 1.5 <nUm> from the ideal 109.5 <nUm> tetrahedral angle ( Table III ) .
O-P-O angles	109.5 <nUm>	The four P-O bonds in the near regular tetrahedron ( point symmetry2 ) range from 1.524 - 1.525 A , with O-P-O angles deviating by no more than 1.5 <nUm> from the ideal 109.5 <nUm> tetrahedral angle ( Table III ) .
axial torsions	octahedra	In figure 5 , the axial torsions in the octahedra , show a similar behaviour .
rotation	octahedra	This rotation takes place along with the rotation of the octahedra around the three-fold axes .
atomic positions	thermal displacement parameters	All atomic positions and thermal displacement parameters were then refined with fixed occupancy and the Rp value decreased from approximately 7 - 5 % to 5 - 4 % .
Rp value	7 - 5 %	All atomic positions and thermal displacement parameters were then refined with fixed occupancy and the Rp value decreased from approximately 7 - 5 % to 5 - 4 % .
Rp value	5 - 4 %	All atomic positions and thermal displacement parameters were then refined with fixed occupancy and the Rp value decreased from approximately 7 - 5 % to 5 - 4 % .
Na(1)	6b	After refinement of the framework atoms , the occupancy of the atomic positions Na(1) and Na(2) ( 6b and 18e , respectively ) was refined but the obtained Na concentration in the structure model was lower than the Na content determined by ICP - OES .
Unit cell parameters	atomic positions	Unit cell parameters , refinement conditions , and refined atomic positions .
Unit cell parameters	refinement	Unit cell parameters , refinement conditions , and refined atomic positions .
refinement	atomic positions	Unit cell parameters , refinement conditions , and refined atomic positions .
R3 space group	room temperature	In the execution with R3 space group some isotropic temperature factors are negative , whereas the atomic positions exhibit values which induces to think about the possibility of that both R3c and R3 phases be present at room temperature .
R3 phases	room temperature	In the execution with R3 space group some isotropic temperature factors are negative , whereas the atomic positions exhibit values which induces to think about the possibility of that both R3c and R3 phases be present at room temperature .
atomic positions	interatomic distances	From atomic positions the interatomic distances and angles were calculated , the most representative of which are listed in table 4 .
atomic positions	angles	From atomic positions the interatomic distances and angles were calculated , the most representative of which are listed in table 4 .
atomic positions	asymmetry	iii ) The atomic positions and occupancy factors and the overall temperature factor , iv ) The FWHM parameters ( U , V , W ) , and the asymmetry .
atomic positions	occupancy factors	iii ) The atomic positions and occupancy factors and the overall temperature factor , iv ) The FWHM parameters ( U , V , W ) , and the asymmetry .
Rietveld refinement	angles	The Rietveld refinement yielded the atomic positions in Table 2 , from which the most representative bond lengths and angles have been calculated , appearing in Table 3 .
Rietveld refinement	bond lengths	The Rietveld refinement yielded the atomic positions in Table 2 , from which the most representative bond lengths and angles have been calculated , appearing in Table 3 .
starting parameters	atomic positions	The starting parameters have been the atomic positions and the cell dimensions as refined by the Rietveld program from room temperature data .
cell dimensions	room temperature	The starting parameters have been the atomic positions and the cell dimensions as refined by the Rietveld program from room temperature data .
temperature	scandium tungstate type structure	The most pronounced deformation occurs for the lithium system : the synthesis of samples at a temperature not exceed ing 840C results in the crystallization of phases with a scandium tungstate type structure .
temperature	840C	The most pronounced deformation occurs for the lithium system : the synthesis of samples at a temperature not exceed ing 840C results in the crystallization of phases with a scandium tungstate type structure .
structural correlations	conductivity	The nonstoichiometric phases appear to display the same structural correlations with conductivity as the stoichiometric ones .
annealing	phases	It has now been shown that long annealing of some of these nonstoichiometric phases leads to the formation of crystals which strictly adhere to Hong  formula .
simultaneous refinement	phases	The latest version of the least squares analysis program allows for LIE simultaneous refinement of 4 phases and includes a modified term backgrcund function .
high temperatures	phases	One of the reasons for the low Al content in the reported NASICONs , so far , is the conditions of the ceramic syntheses with very high temperatures that result in a mixture of phases .
Al content	high temperatures	One of the reasons for the low Al content in the reported NASICONs , so far , is the conditions of the ceramic syntheses with very high temperatures that result in a mixture of phases .
room temperature	monoclinic modification	At room temperature , these crystals are stable as the monoclinic modification ; above 95 and 140 <nUm> , their rhombohedra phases are stable .
140 <nUm>	phases	At room temperature , these crystals are stable as the monoclinic modification ; above 95 and 140 <nUm> , their rhombohedra phases are stable .
M1 site	antiprism	The M1 site is an antiprism formed by the triangular faces of two ABO6 octahedra along c axis of the hexagonal cell .
sites	M1	In this skeleton , there are two sites , usually labeled M1 and M2 .
M1	R3-c space group	The interstitial voids generated within the network are of two types known as M1 and M2 sites ( 1 : 3 multiplicity ) in the R3-c space group .
conduction	M1	Long - range conduction of the ions in the NASICON structure involves hopping between the M1 and M2 sites .
M1	alkali metal cations	Within the 3D-framework , two sites , usually labelled M1 and M2 , are available for the alkali metal cations .
M2	alkali metal cations	Within the 3D-framework , two sites , usually labelled M1 and M2 , are available for the alkali metal cations .
electrical parameters	activation energies	An initial approach to correlate electrical parameters ( ionic conductivities and activation energies ) with generic average structural parameters ( unit cell constants ) was followed by scrutiny of specific structural factors such as the size of the bottleneck that connects the M1 and M2 sites .
electrical parameters	ionic conductivities	An initial approach to correlate electrical parameters ( ionic conductivities and activation energies ) with generic average structural parameters ( unit cell constants ) was followed by scrutiny of specific structural factors such as the size of the bottleneck that connects the M1 and M2 sites .
O(1)	M2	The main structural change produced along the series is the movement of O(1) towards the M2 .
crystal structures	Rietveld method	Their crystal structures have been refined at room temperature from X-ray powder diffraction data using Rietveld method .
room temperature	Rietveld method	Their crystal structures have been refined at room temperature from X-ray powder diffraction data using Rietveld method .
crystal structures	Rietveld method	These compounds crystallise in the NASICON type structure , R3-c space group , and the crystal structures have been characterised by the Rietveld method with laboratory powder diffraction data .
probability density functions	oxygen static disorder	No matter , which element finally occupies the interstitial sites , the probability density functions ( pdfs ) of the oxygen sites suggest that these interstitials are correlated with an oxygen static disorder : The corresponding pdfo ( r ) , which include 3rd and 24th order temperature coefficients ( 7 ) , are given in FIG. 2 ) .
ZrO6 coordination octahedron	split oxygen sites	At room temperature the NASICON framework shows static disorder : interstitial sites inside the ZrO6 coordination octahedron and split oxygen sites .
interstitial sites	ZrO6 coordination octahedron	At room temperature the NASICON framework shows static disorder : interstitial sites inside the ZrO6 coordination octahedron and split oxygen sites .
Na2 occupancy	temperature	Therefore we deduce , that the Na2 occupancy increases with temperature at the expense of the interstitial sites ' occupancy because the Nal site is fully occupied at both temperatures .
ah - parameter	Na+ amount	The ah - parameter evolution is a result of the Na+ amount present in the M2 sites .
M2 sites	eight-fold coordination	The M2 sites are located between these ribbons in large cavities with an eight-fold coordination .
hopping	M2 sites	Taking into account the Na radius , the direct hopping between two M2 sites is not possible because of the small M2M2 bottleneck size .
Na radius	M2M2 bottleneck size	Taking into account the Na radius , the direct hopping between two M2 sites is not possible because of the small M2M2 bottleneck size .
M2 sites	eight-fold coordination	The M2 sites are located between these ribbonsin large cavities with a eight-fold coordination .
M2 sites	ribbonsin large cavities	The M2 sites are located between these ribbonsin large cavities with a eight-fold coordination .
M2 sites	O(2)	For Al0 , the M2 sites are vacant and the void is very anisotropic with four long distances to O(1) ( 262.92 A and 262.62 A ) and four shorter distances to O(2) ( 262.24 A and 262.31 A ) .
Al0	O(1)	For Al0 , the M2 sites are vacant and the void is very anisotropic with four long distances to O(1) ( 262.92 A and 262.62 A ) and four shorter distances to O(2) ( 262.24 A and 262.31 A ) .
Na1 occupation	configurational entropy	Taken into account that symmetry related infinite channels running in different directions are interconnected at M1 sites , a slight decrease of Na1 occupation must improve configurational entropy ( cation disorder ) in the analyzed compounds .
Na(l)	conduction channels	The Na(l) position is localized at the intersection of three conduction channels , and this leads to a given Na(l) having six neighboring Na(2) positions distributed as two triplets at z 1 / 12 and rotated by Tt / 3 with respect to one another .
Na(l) position	z 1 / 12	The Na(l) position is localized at the intersection of three conduction channels , and this leads to a given Na(l) having six neighboring Na(2) positions distributed as two triplets at z 1 / 12 and rotated by Tt / 3 with respect to one another .
rhombohedral cell	sp. gr. R3c	Thus , a rhombohedral cell belonging to the sp. gr. R3c is formed .
dimers	cube	In the cubic modification ( the structural type of the mineral langbeinite ) , dimers are oriented in four directions along nonintersecting threefold axes parallel to the main diagonals of the cube .
cubic modification	mineral langbeinite	In the cubic modification ( the structural type of the mineral langbeinite ) , dimers are oriented in four directions along nonintersecting threefold axes parallel to the main diagonals of the cube .
cubic cell	sp. gr. P213	Thus , a cubic cell belonging to the sp. gr. P213 is formed .
tetrahedral ion	sp. gr. P213	According to the factor - group analysis of the vibrations of the tetrahedral ion with the positional C1 symmetry in the sp. gr. P213 ( the factor group T ) , the spectrum should contain three bands of vibrations ,
C1 symmetry	sp. gr. P213	According to the factor - group analysis of the vibrations of the tetrahedral ion with the positional C1 symmetry in the sp. gr. P213 ( the factor group T ) , the spectrum should contain three bands of vibrations ,
rhombohedral	cubic structural modifications	The samples of the phosphates prepared , assigned to the rhombohedral and cubic structural modifications in accordance with the X-ray diffraction data , were also characterized by IR spectroscopy .
cubic structural modifications	X-ray diffraction	The samples of the phosphates prepared , assigned to the rhombohedral and cubic structural modifications in accordance with the X-ray diffraction data , were also characterized by IR spectroscopy .
rhombohedral	R3-c space group	Typically , NASICON type materials are stable in rhombohedral symmetry with R3-c space group .
NASICON type materials	R3-c space group	Typically , NASICON type materials are stable in rhombohedral symmetry with R3-c space group .
rhombohedral	monoclinic	These authors investigated the structure of two rhombohedral ( x = I and x = 2.5 ) and of two monoclinic ( x = 1.6 and x = 2 ) compounds .
rhombohedral	unit cell	The powder patterns of the three mixed sodium transition metal phosphates prepared within this study could all be interpreted assuming a hexagonal ( rhombohedral ) unit cell .
powder diffractograms	rhombohedral	The parameters calculated from powder diffractograms for the rhombohedral unit cell were : a = 8.981 + 0.004 A .
rhombohedral	monoclinic symmetry	This splitting corresponds to a phase transition from rhombohedral to monoclinic symmetry ( C2 / c ) ( 8 ) .
rhombohedral	room temperature	The former is rhombohedral and the latter monoclinic at room temperature .
monoclinic	rhombohedral	We interpret this change as due to a phase transformation from monoclinic to rhombohedral , a transformation previously reported for NASICON ( 4 , 23 ) .
rhombohedral	monoclinic	These authors investigated the structure of two rhombohedral ( x = 1 and x = 2.5 ) and of two monoclinic ( x = 1.6 and x = 2 ) compounds .
structure	rhombohedral	These authors investigated the structure of two rhombohedral ( x = 1 and x = 2.5 ) and of two monoclinic ( x = 1.6 and x = 2 ) compounds .
phase	rhombohedral	Powders are known to exhibit two first order phase transitions [ 6 , 7 ] : ( a ) from a monoclinic , ionic insulator , low temperature phase to a rhombohedral , ionic conductor , intermediate temperature phase at Tl = 650 <nUm> and ( b ) from this intermediate phase to the high temperature phase , again rhombohedral but with superionic behavior at 168 <nUm> .
monoclinic	rhombohedral	Powders are known to exhibit two first order phase transitions [ 6 , 7 ] : ( a ) from a monoclinic , ionic insulator , low temperature phase to a rhombohedral , ionic conductor , intermediate temperature phase at Tl = 650 <nUm> and ( b ) from this intermediate phase to the high temperature phase , again rhombohedral but with superionic behavior at 168 <nUm> .
polyhedra	Na site	The rotation ofessentially rigid polyhedra also is accompanied by thechanges in the environment and opening of the Na site
cell dimensions	polyhedra	This linkage causes the cell dimensions to alter in response to the rotation of the polyhedra , due to thermal energy .
rotation	thermal energy	This linkage causes the cell dimensions to alter in response to the rotation of the polyhedra , due to thermal energy .
NZP structure	polyhedra	Thus it has been demonstrated that the anomalous thermal expansion behavior of NZP structure is correlated with rotations of polyhedra in the Zr-P framework .
rotation	polyhedra	The rotation of the polyhedra of the structure can be described with reference to the angles defined in the structure model paper of Lenain et al.
polyhedra	Na site	The rotation of essentially rigid polyhedra also is accompanied by the changes in the environment and opening of the Na site ,
rotation	Na site	The rotation of essentially rigid polyhedra also is accompanied by the changes in the environment and opening of the Na site ,
angular distortion	increasing temperature	The angular distortion of the polyhedra decreases with increasing temperature .
angles	polyhedra	A careful examination of these diagrams reveals that there is a slight change in the angles of rotation of two polyhedra at 690 <nUm> .
elasticity	network	The decrease of ahis due to the elasticity of the network formed by polyhedra linked together only by corners .
TO6	PO4 polyhedra	Individuality of the architectural motif of these structural types is determined by the mutual position of TO6 and PO4 polyhedra .
ZrO6	PO4 polyhedra	On heating , the c-parameter of NZP increases due to large expansion of Na-O bond with simultaneous decrease in the aparameter due to coupled rotation of ZrO6 and PO4 polyhedra leading to an average low thermal expansion coefficient .
PO4 polyhedra	high temperature	The PO4 polyhedra rotate strictly around the two fold axis in the high temperature phase , but around the [0001] direction in the low temperature form .
PO4 polyhedra	R3c space group	The global analysis of the structure at the four temperatures reveals that the structural transition is due to a fast rotation of the SnO6 and PO4 polyhedra around axes along the [0001] direction breaking the two fold axis in the R3c space group that exists in the structure above the transition point .
structural transition	SnO6	The global analysis of the structure at the four temperatures reveals that the structural transition is due to a fast rotation of the SnO6 and PO4 polyhedra around axes along the [0001] direction breaking the two fold axis in the R3c space group that exists in the structure above the transition point .
interstices	ionic conductivity	The interstices account for a significant volume of the framework ; they penetrate the NZP framework , creating favorable conditions for ionic conductivity .
cation radius	interstices	The increasing mean cation radius in the extraframework positions decreases the cation mobility in the interstices and , accordingly , decreases and increases .
cation radius	cation mobility	The increasing mean cation radius in the extraframework positions decreases the cation mobility in the interstices and , accordingly , decreases and increases .
electrical conductivity	mobility	By analogy with the known NZP phases , the electrical conductivity in the new triple phosphates is explained by the mobility of the alkali cations in the interstices .
balanced valances	extinction effects	Interestingly , from all NASICON structure refinements carried out up to now only the structure investigation of the extremely small crystal reported in ( 2 ) lead to balanced valances but did not show any extinction effects .
stability	structure	The stability of this structure for a wide range of chemical elements makes this a candidate for a universal sponge for nuclear waste host material .
stability	nuclear waste host material	The stability of this structure for a wide range of chemical elements makes this a candidate for a universal sponge for nuclear waste host material .
structure	AsO4 tetrahedra	The structure is formed by a three dimensional network of AsO4 tetrahedra and ZrO6 octahedra sharing corners .
interatomic distances	structure	Thus , from this calculation as well as from a computation of the interatomic distances , which were found to be within the normal range , further evidence was obtained that the atomic parameters arrived at in the final cycle of refinement and listed in Table 7 should present an adequate description of the structure .
hexagonal	structure	This allowed the final structural refinement to be performed with the hexagonal description of the structure .
structure	monoclinic space group	In the range of highest conductivities , 1.6 < x < 2.3 , the structure distorts to monoclinic space group C2 / c .
structure	rhombohedral NASICON structure	The novel aspect of this structure is the simultaneous presence of partially occupied interstitial sodium and oxygen sites that are disordered with the regular Na(2) and 0 ( 1 ) sites in the known rhombohedral NASICON structure .
oxygen sites	Na(2)	The novel aspect of this structure is the simultaneous presence of partially occupied interstitial sodium and oxygen sites that are disordered with the regular Na(2) and 0 ( 1 ) sites in the known rhombohedral NASICON structure .
structure	interstitial sodium	The novel aspect of this structure is the simultaneous presence of partially occupied interstitial sodium and oxygen sites that are disordered with the regular Na(2) and O(1) sites in the known rhombohedral NASICON structure .
structure	monoclinic	In the range of highest conductivities , 1.6 < x < 2.3 , the structure distorts to monoclinic , space group C2 / c .
structure	R3 space group	So , remodelling the input structure , according to this possibility , the final refinement has been carried out using the R3 space group , improving the fitting sensibly .
structure	refinement	The present work has proved that a close model of the structure is not enough to get a convergency in the refinement following the Rietveld method .
direction	rotation	In figure 1 , the projection of a fragment of the structure ( 0 < = z < = 1 / 4 ) in the [0001] direction shows the rotation of the phosphate groups around this direction in the low temperature form .
single crystal	structure	After each reaction the single crystal structure was determined .
structure	single crystals	, 10 ) was originally developed for the refinement of structures from neutron diffraction data , but it has been extended end applied in the last decade in many cases ( 11,12,13 ) using powder X-ray diffraction , and so solving the structure of those compounds that can not be synthesized in the form of single crystals .
powder X-ray diffraction	single crystals	, 10 ) was originally developed for the refinement of structures from neutron diffraction data , but it has been extended end applied in the last decade in many cases ( 11,12,13 ) using powder X-ray diffraction , and so solving the structure of those compounds that can not be synthesized in the form of single crystals .
Na(1)	Na mobility	The large thermal motion of Na(1) and Na(2) is probably related to the Na mobility in this structure .
monoclinic	room temperature	In the composition range 1.8 < x 2.4 these compounds have been reported to be one of the best sodium ionic conductors ( 2 ) exhibiting a con-In this range the symmetry of the structure is monoclinic at room temperature ( space group C2 / c ) .
1.8 < x 2.4	sodium ionic conductors	In the composition range 1.8 < x 2.4 these compounds have been reported to be one of the best sodium ionic conductors ( 2 ) exhibiting a con-In this range the symmetry of the structure is monoclinic at room temperature ( space group C2 / c ) .
NASICON	495K	The results of a single crystal X-ray structure detemination of NASICON at 495K are presented .
NASICON phase	Zr content	It expands the NASICON phase section to a plane in the quarternary system , which includes a variation of the Zr content in the structure .
Fourier analyses	structure	The difference Fourier analyses did not reveal any additional cationic sites in the structure .
rhombohedral	space group R3c	Satisfactory Rietveld refinements were obtained for all temperatures using the rhombohedral space group R3c .
refinement	space group R3c	The profile refinement was performed in the space group R3c ( No.167 ) .
space group R3c	a = 8.6160(7)	It crystallizes in the trigonal space group R3c with a = 8.6160(7) , c = 22.075(3) , Z = 6 , R = 0.015 , Rw = 0.018 , GOF = 1.613 for 406 unique reflections with 1 > 2.5 0-(I) .
space group R3c	c = 22.075(3)	It crystallizes in the trigonal space group R3c with a = 8.6160(7) , c = 22.075(3) , Z = 6 , R = 0.015 , Rw = 0.018 , GOF = 1.613 for 406 unique reflections with 1 > 2.5 0-(I) .
temperatures	rhombohedral symmetry	At temperatures above 423K a phase transition to rhombohedral symmetry ( space group R3c ) was found ( 4 ) .
distortion	TiO6 octahedra	A distortion is observed in the TiO6 octahedra , i.e. 3 1.883 and 3 1.967 .
ZrO6	TiO6 octahedra	Also , the rotations and angles of the poiyhedra ( sign criteria are the opposite ) are very close in spite of the different size of the ZrO6 and TiO6 octahedra .
positions M1	alkali cations	Extraframework positions M1 are fully occupied by randomly distributed alkali cations .
molybdate phosphates	NZP structure	The crystallization field of the molybdate phosphates with the NZP structure is contracted as the size of the alkali metal cation increases .
structure Nasicon type	R3c space group	Its structure Nasicon type has been refined in R3c space group .
R3c space group	spatial coordinates	Under these conditions , the refinements where carried out within the usual R3c space group of NASICON with simultaneous refinement of spatial coordinates , anisotropic temperature factors , and occupancies for the two usual Na(l) and Na(2) sodium sites .
high temperature	R3c space group	Only the high temperature data from the compound above their transition point have been easily refined in the R3c space group .
R3c space group	spatial coordinates	Under these conditions , the refinements where carried out within the usual R3c space group of NASICON with simultaneous refinement of spatial coordinates , anisotropic temperature factors , and occupancies for the two usual Na(1) and Na(2) sodium sites .
NASICON	lattice sites	In three dimensional framework of NASICON , numerous ionic substitutions are allowed at various lattice sites .
[PO4] tetrahedra	three dimensional framework	these chains being ensured by the [PO4] tetrahedra via corners and the resulting three dimensional framework delimits two kinds of tunnels in the [ 0 0 1 ] direction .
(P,V)O4 tetrahedra	three dimensional framework	The isolated ZrO6 octahedra and (P,V)O4 tetrahedra form a three dimensional framework by sharing vertices .
ZrO6 octahedra	three dimensional framework	The isolated ZrO6 octahedra and (P,V)O4 tetrahedra form a three dimensional framework by sharing vertices .
three dimensional framework	Zr06 octahedra	The robust three dimensional framework is formed by fundamental groups consisting of two Zr06 octahedra and three Si04 / PO4 tetrahedra with which they share corner oxygen .
ch - parameter	electrostatic repulsions	The ch - parameter variations results mainly from the electrostatic repulsions between ions occupy the A site .
sites	bottlenecks	These sites are connected by bottlenecks generally termed M1M2 bottlenecks .
anisotropic temperature factors	sites	The refinement was started with anisotropic temperature factors for all sites .
Na ( l ) site	vacant site	In fact , for this special composition , we note that each Na ( l ) site is connected to Na(2) site triangles consisting on average of one vacant site and two filled sites .
Small grains	needle axis	Small grains as well as pits are oriented parallel to the needle axis suggesting that selective etching of highly disordered sites within the whole material occurs .
sodium interactions	high concentration	This displacement is enhanced at x = 2 because of both important sodium interactions and high concentration of available interstitial sites .
Na+ sites	cavities	Secondly , as the occupancy of the Na+ sites increases , the conductivity first increases and then falls off as the cavities become filled .
Na+ sites	conductivity	Secondly , as the occupancy of the Na+ sites increases , the conductivity first increases and then falls off as the cavities become filled .
three dimensional network	PO4	Both structures contain a rigid , three dimensional network of PO4 or ( Si04 ) tetrahedra sharing corners with Zr06 octahedra and a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
skeleton structures	three dimensional network	Potential skeleton structures would consist of a rigid , three dimensional network stabilized by electrons donated by transporting ions partially occupying a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
crystal structure	triple chains	Single crystal structure determination : The main features of the crystal structure are triple chains of face sharing TiSe6 octahedra which are connected by common edges leading to a three dimensional network with large hexagonal channels parallel to the c-axis .
hexagonal channels	c-axis	Single crystal structure determination : The main features of the crystal structure are triple chains of face sharing TiSe6 octahedra which are connected by common edges leading to a three dimensional network with large hexagonal channels parallel to the c-axis .
ZrO6 octahedra	AsO4 tetrahedra	ZrO6 octahedra and AsO4 tetrahedra linked by corners .
(Si,P)O4 tetrahedra	ZrO6 octahedra	It consists of a rigid network of (Si,P)O4 tetrahedra sharing corners with ZrO6 octahedra .
optimal homogenous catalyst	synthetic conversion	This new approach combines converconditions can be quickly optimised and the same system can then be used to screen for the optimal homogenous catalyst in a selected solution phase synthetic conversion .
chemical route	symmetry	While , the same phase synthesized through chemical route persists in stable symmetry .
single	phase	The single phase samples were obtained in the composition range .
immobilize	alkali metals	The important advantage of such matrices compared to other candidate mineral - like matrices is ability to immobilize alkali metals in the insoluble phase .
single phases	unit cell parameters	Powder X-ray diffraction of samples with 1 showed that they were not single phases ; the major phase was of the NZP structural type and had similar unit cell parameters .
2 h	phase	Up to 2 h equilibration time was allowed at each new temperature in case a phase change occurred .
sodium content	reaction	It should be possible to extend the homogeneity range of this phase , and especially to increase the sodium content by electrochemical intercalation or by reaction with organometallic compounds .
electrochemical intercalation	reaction	It should be possible to extend the homogeneity range of this phase , and especially to increase the sodium content by electrochemical intercalation or by reaction with organometallic compounds .
R3	R-3c	Below the phase transition ( 860 K ) the space group has been determined to be R3 which changes to R-3c in the high temperature phase .
lower	phase	It is demonstrated that the lower phase limit is near x = 0.2 .
NZP type	major phase	The calcination at 800 <nUm> of the samples with compositions corresponding to x = 0.5 to 1.5 yields a NZP type phase as the major phase and SnP2O7 , TiP2O7 and unreacted SnO2 as minor phases .
phase	SnP2O7	The calcination at 800 <nUm> of the samples with compositions corresponding to x = 0.5 to 1.5 yields a NZP type phase as the major phase and SnP2O7 , TiP2O7 and unreacted SnO2 as minor phases .
phase	TiP2O7	The calcination at 800 <nUm> of the samples with compositions corresponding to x = 0.5 to 1.5 yields a NZP type phase as the major phase and SnP2O7 , TiP2O7 and unreacted SnO2 as minor phases .
phase transformations	high temperature	In general , phase transformations of this kind , where the high temperature phase is denser than the low temperature phase , are very rare .
crystal structure	monoclinic	To the type 1470 <nUm> crystal , correspond the crystal structure determination reported by Hong ( which is not really monoclinic as shown by Susman et al. and confirmed by a partially vacant Na(l) site ) , and the results published by Tran Qui et al. , who pointed out the existence of condensed ( 2a,c ) superstructure spots characteristic of the phase .
rhombohedral structure	space group R-3c	It crystallizes in a rhombohedral structure with space group R-3c and exhibits anisotropic thermal expansion .
orthophosphate anions	crystal structure	The presence of orthophosphate anions in the crystal structure was confirmed with the infrared ( IR ) spectroscopy .
thermal deformations	crystal structure	An increase in the arsenic content in the compound results in increase in the absolute values of the thermal expansion coefficients , which is attributable to an increase in the bond lengths of the tetrahedral atoms to oxygen and the bond ionicity and , as a consequence , lower strength at thermal deformations of the crystal structure .
crystal structure	NASICON type compounds	Its crystal structure is related to that of NASICON type compounds .
orthophosphate anions	crystal structure	The presence of orthophosphate anions in the crystal structure was confirmed by IR spectroscopy .
crystal structure	IR spectroscopy	The presence of orthophosphate anions in the crystal structure was confirmed by IR spectroscopy .
crystal structure	berhombohedral	Depending on the composition , the crystal structure can either berhombohedral , monoclinic or triclinic .
crystal structure	monoclinic	Depending on the composition , the crystal structure can either berhombohedral , monoclinic or triclinic .
composition	crystal structure	Depending on the composition , the crystal structure can either berhombohedral , monoclinic or triclinic .
crystal structure	alluaudite type	The crystal structure of ( II ) belongs to the alluaudite type .
Physical	crystal structure	Physical and chemical properties of all these types of compounds depend strongly on their crystal structure .
NASICON type Na+ ion conductor	crystal structure	In general , the properties of the NASICON type Na+ ion conductor compounds strongly depend upon the chemical stoichiometry , the crystal structure and unit cell parameters , that , at the same time , depend on the ionic radii of the cations located in octahedral(M) and tetrahedral(X) sites .
NASICON type Na+ ion conductor	octahedral(M)	In general , the properties of the NASICON type Na+ ion conductor compounds strongly depend upon the chemical stoichiometry , the crystal structure and unit cell parameters , that , at the same time , depend on the ionic radii of the cations located in octahedral(M) and tetrahedral(X) sites .
NASICON type Na+ ion conductor	tetrahedral(X) sites	In general , the properties of the NASICON type Na+ ion conductor compounds strongly depend upon the chemical stoichiometry , the crystal structure and unit cell parameters , that , at the same time , depend on the ionic radii of the cations located in octahedral(M) and tetrahedral(X) sites .
NASICON type Na+ ion conductor	ionic radii	In general , the properties of the NASICON type Na+ ion conductor compounds strongly depend upon the chemical stoichiometry , the crystal structure and unit cell parameters , that , at the same time , depend on the ionic radii of the cations located in octahedral(M) and tetrahedral(X) sites .
high stability	crystal structure	Their high stability and ability to incorporate wide variety of different cations in the crystal structure are the reasons of which these substances are proposed as the hosts for immobilizing radioactive wastes .
high stability	crystal structure	Their high stability and ability to incorporate wide variety of different cations in the crystal structure are the reasons of which these substances are proposed as the hosts for immobilizing radioactive wastes .
crystal structure	immobilizing radioactive	Their high stability and ability to incorporate wide variety of different cations in the crystal structure are the reasons of which these substances are proposed as the hosts for immobilizing radioactive wastes .
crystal structure	SW type	The obtained data indicate that the crystal structure corresponds to the SW type .
Rietveld analysis	powder X-ray patterns	Reement of the crystal structure of the sintered samples was performed by Rietveld analysis based on powder X-ray patterns .
crystal structure	sintered samples	Reement of the crystal structure of the sintered samples was performed by Rietveld analysis based on powder X-ray patterns .
crystal structure	Rietveld analysis	Reement of the crystal structure of the sintered samples was performed by Rietveld analysis based on powder X-ray patterns .
crystal structure	cation conduction	This crystal structure is one of the most suitable structures for cation conduction .
electric conductivity	crystal structure	The reason for the enhancement of electric conductivity is conmed to be the change of crystal structure .
crystal structure	Na(2) sites	Finally , from our recent crystal structure determination of the NASICON ( 14 ) , we have detected a new sodium position ( mid-Na ) in the conduction channel , intermediate between the usual Na ( l ) and Na(2) sites .
crystal structure	Na ( l )	Finally , from our recent crystal structure determination of the NASICON ( 14 ) , we have detected a new sodium position ( mid-Na ) in the conduction channel , intermediate between the usual Na ( l ) and Na(2) sites .
crystal structure	NASICON	Finally , from our recent crystal structure determination of the NASICON ( 14 ) , we have detected a new sodium position ( mid-Na ) in the conduction channel , intermediate between the usual Na ( l ) and Na(2) sites .
crystal structure	conduction channel	Finally , from our recent crystal structure determination of the NASICON ( 14 ) , we have detected a new sodium position ( mid-Na ) in the conduction channel , intermediate between the usual Na ( l ) and Na(2) sites .
rhombohedral symmetry	crystal structure	The general features of the NASICON type packing , in the rhombohedral symmetry , have been known for many years from crystal structure determinations of both end members x = 0 ( 1 , 7 ) and x = 3 ( 8 , 9 ) .
crystal structure	MoKa radiation	For each crystal structure determination , data were collected using MoKa radiation up to 29 - 650 .
MoKa radiation	29 - 650	For each crystal structure determination , data were collected using MoKa radiation up to 29 - 650 .
crystal structure	space group P63	Attempts to refine the crystal structure in the acentric space group P63 gave no better reults .
single crystals	crystal structure	Also , in materials with a flexible skeleton and a high anisotropy , single crystals use to show a crystal structure that is slightly different from that present in the ceramics .
crystal structure	ceramics	Also , in materials with a flexible skeleton and a high anisotropy , single crystals use to show a crystal structure that is slightly different from that present in the ceramics .
absorption band	crystal structure	As there is no significant absorption band at about 1600 cm -1 where one would expect a vibration frequency of water , we conclude that the observed vibration band is with high probability caused by O-H defects in the crystal structure ; this kind of defects is well known in natural quartz ( 7 ) .
absorption band	1600 cm -1	As there is no significant absorption band at about 1600 cm -1 where one would expect a vibration frequency of water , we conclude that the observed vibration band is with high probability caused by O-H defects in the crystal structure ; this kind of defects is well known in natural quartz ( 7 ) .
crystal structure	rhombohedral phase	Details of crystal structure determination for the end member x = 0 at room temperature ( in the rhombohedral phase ) and descriptions of low temperature monoclinic phase will be published elsewhere .
crystal structure	monoclinic phase	Details of crystal structure determination for the end member x = 0 at room temperature ( in the rhombohedral phase ) and descriptions of low temperature monoclinic phase will be published elsewhere .
room temperature	monoclinic phase	Details of crystal structure determination for the end member x = 0 at room temperature ( in the rhombohedral phase ) and descriptions of low temperature monoclinic phase will be published elsewhere .
lattice	monoclinic	Efremov and Kalinin concluded after a crystal structure determination that the lattice was monoclinic with a = 16.10(1) , b = 9.019(4) 8.928(4) and 127.14(4) 0 , space group Bb .
IR spectra	phase vanadate phosphate samples	Analysis of the IR spectra of the single phase vanadate phosphate samples indicated the presence of the PO4 and VO4 groups and the absence of condensed phosphates and vanadates .
phase vanadate phosphate samples	PO4 and VO4 groups	Analysis of the IR spectra of the single phase vanadate phosphate samples indicated the presence of the PO4 and VO4 groups and the absence of condensed phosphates and vanadates .
Zr06 octahedra	PO4 or SiO4 tetrahedra	A detailed description of the general NASICON structure is given in ( 3,4,6 ). Zr06 octahedra share corners with PO4 or SiO4 tetrahedra ( FIG. I ) .
site	lattice sites	If the crystalline fields and / or the site binding energy preferentially stabilizes an alkali ion at a particular set of lattice sites , the activation energy for jumping from one site to the next may be large even if the geometrical constraints of the bottlenecks are small .
activation energy	bottlenecks	If the crystalline fields and / or the site binding energy preferentially stabilizes an alkali ion at a particular set of lattice sites , the activation energy for jumping from one site to the next may be large even if the geometrical constraints of the bottlenecks are small .
alkali ion	bottlenecks	Creation of strong bonding within the rigid network should make the bonding between alkali ion and network more ionic and hence , perhaps , less site specific if the geometrical constraints at the bottlenecks are not a problem .
Isotropic temperature factors	site	Isotropic temperature factors for each site were refined .
site	Na(2)-O(1) bond distances	As this site is progressively filled , the environment becomes more regular , Table 3 , Na(2)-O(1) bond distances become shorter and Na(2)-O(2) distances larger .
Na1	charge balance	After refinement of a basic model and an accurate definition of the atom positions , the occupancy of Na1 and Na2 sites were refined freely and were finally restrained to meet the criterion for charge balance .
occupancy	Na1	After refinement of a basic model and an accurate definition of the atom positions , the occupancy of Na1 and Na2 sites were refined freely and were finally restrained to meet the criterion for charge balance .
Na diffusion path	Na1	Additional refinement of higher order temperature coefficients of the Na sites at 993K yielded a Na diffusion path Na1 - Na2 similar to that found in other NASICON compositions .
Na2 or Na3 site	bottleneck	Each Na2 or Na3 site is connected through a bottleneck to two Na1 sites , but there is no passageway between Na2 sites or a Na2 and a Na3 site .
Ti-O distance	effective ionic radii	The average Ti-O distance of 1.925 A is smaller than the value of 2.005 A estimated from the effective ionic radii of six coordinated Ti(4+) and O(2) .
AsO4 tetrahedra	As-O distance	The AsO4 tetrahedra are quite regular with an average As-O distance of 1.668 A which is lower than the value of 1.735 A estimated from the effectiveionic radii of four coordinated As(5+) and O(2) .
single crystal	NASICON type	Its structure has been solved and refined from single crystal X-ray data : NASICON type , R3-c , a = 8.8057(5) , c = 22.2406(15) A , Z = 6 , wR(F2) = 0.0617 for 576 unique reflections and 30 variables .
open framework	[NiO6]	The open framework is built up from a complex arrangement of [NiO6] and [FeO6] octahedral and [PO4] tetrahedra .
open framework	[PO4] tetrahedra	The open framework is built up from a complex arrangement of [NiO6] and [FeO6] octahedral and [PO4] tetrahedra .
channels	Nal site	The six channels through each Nal site provide a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
channels	interstitial space	The six channels through each Nal site provide a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
bottleneck	tetrahedral edges	The bottleneck in the passageway from a Nal site to a Na2 or Naq site is a puckered hexagonal ring having sides that altemate between octahedral and tetrahedral edges .
8-fold coordination	Na2	They can be represented ( Figs.8 and 9 ) as a trigonal antiprism for Nal , highly distorted trigonal prismfor Na3 and an irregular 8-fold coordination for Na2 .
conduction pathway	Na2 to Na2	Thus one might conclude , albeit guardedly , that the conduction pathway is similar ; that is , Na2 to Na2 in the rhombohedral phase .
Na2 to Na2	rhombohedral phase	Thus one might conclude , albeit guardedly , that the conduction pathway is similar ; that is , Na2 to Na2 in the rhombohedral phase .
weight loss	NASICON phase	Further weight loss between 740 and 800 is due to the formation of NASICON phase , that is articulated in DTA plot as sharp exothermic peak .
NASICON phase	DTA plot	Further weight loss between 740 and 800 is due to the formation of NASICON phase , that is articulated in DTA plot as sharp exothermic peak .
NASICON phase	11500C	As previously reported ( 13 ) , a well crystallized NASICON phase can be prepared by sol gel technique after a thermal treatment above 11500C .
NASICON phase	sol gel technique	As previously reported ( 13 ) , a well crystallized NASICON phase can be prepared by sol gel technique after a thermal treatment above 11500C .
NASICON phase	isotropic thermal parameters	Final refinements for each temperature for the NASICON phase included positional parameters for all atoms , isotropic thermal parameters for all non-sodium atoms , and population parameters for Na( 1 ) , Na(2) / Na(2' ) , and 1 ) / O( I )
NASICON phase	positional parameters	Final refinements for each temperature for the NASICON phase included positional parameters for all atoms , isotropic thermal parameters for all non-sodium atoms , and population parameters for Na( 1 ) , Na(2) / Na(2' ) , and 1 ) / O( I )
Na diffusion path	the effective one particle	The Na diffusion path was described and the effective one particle potential along the path was calculated .
the most probable path , from Na ( l ) to Na(2)	zigzag shape	They established that the most probable path , from Na ( l ) to Na(2) , does not follow a straight line but has a zigzag shape .
conductivity	rhombohedral phase	There is no change in slope of the conductivity plot for the rhombohedral phase , but a fairly dramatic one for the monoclinic phase .
phosphates	the R3-c space group	The latter phosphates belong to the Nasicon family and crystallize in the R3-c space group .
phosphates	Nasicon family	The latter phosphates belong to the Nasicon family and crystallize in the R3-c space group .
NASICON	monoclinic symmetry	We succeeded for the first time in growing single crystals of NASICON with monoclinic symmetry at room temperature .
X-ray diffraction experiments	NASICON single crystals	For the first time X-ray diffraction experiments on NASICON single crystals with monoclinic symmetry at room temperature have been carried out .
structure refinement	monoclinic structure	The measurements were carried out assuming monoclinic symmetry and the structure refinement was started on the basis of the monoclinic structure model of Hong ( 5 ) .
bottleneck sizes	ion conduction pathways	These materials have the same framework , symmetry , and overall cation ratios but significantly different local structures , affecting bottleneck sizes in the mobile ion conduction pathways .
Unit cell parameters	symmetry	Unit cell parameters were first refined without symmetry constraints ( i.e. , as triclinic ) ; all are consistent with hexagonal symmetry .
impedance	ionic conductors	The impedance investigation of ionic conductors in wide frequency range has advantage because it allows separating the charge transport process in grains and grain boundaries of ceramics in a wide temperature range .
conductivity	grains	This is due to the similar nature of the conductivity of the grain boundary and in the bulk of the grains .
sol gel ceramics	grain	This has been related ( 21 ) to the high chemical purity of sol gel ceramics which prevents the impurity concentration at the grain boundaries and consequently enhances the grain growth .
anion substitutions	kosnarite structure	The issues of crystal chemical modeling and synthesis of differentanion compounds and solid solutions , the effect of anion substitutions on the practically valuable properties of materials with the kosnarite structure ( ionic conductivity and magnetic , lumines cence , and catalytic properties ) remain topical .
powder X-ray diffraction	kosnarite structure	The compositions with 1 2.5 are characterized , according to powder X-ray diffraction , by the presence of two phases with the kosnarite structure in the samples .
single phase	annealing temperature	No single phase samples with x = 3 were formed at any annealing temperature .
X ray diffractograms	single phase	X ray diffractograms showed a single phase and no difference with those prepared earlier .
volumes	unit cells	The volumes of the unit cells given for the monoclinic and rhombohedra 1 modifications are 1395 and 1398 , respectively .
The volumes of the unit cells	monoclinic	The volumes of the unit cells given for the monoclinic and rhombohedra 1 modifications are 1395 and 1398 , respectively .
PO4 tetrahedron	strings	Each PO4 tetrahedron is linked with three neighboring strings .
PO4 tetrahedron	two-fold axis	This suggests the existence of rotational terms for the PO4 tetrahedron around the two-fold axis directed along the a trigonal lattice vector associated with a stretching of the O(I)-P-O(I) sequence along ctrig .
High quality powder diffraction	site occupancies	High quality powder diffraction data in combination with the Rietveld method allow refinement of the structural model ( atomic coordinates , site occupancies , and atomic displacement parameters ) as well as of profile parameters ( lattice constants , peak shape and height , instrument parameters , and background ) .
High quality powder diffraction	atomic coordinates	High quality powder diffraction data in combination with the Rietveld method allow refinement of the structural model ( atomic coordinates , site occupancies , and atomic displacement parameters ) as well as of profile parameters ( lattice constants , peak shape and height , instrument parameters , and background ) .
NZP materials	ionic substitution	The unique properties of NZP materials are attributed mainly to ( a ) an open framework structure with strongly bonded polyhedra , ( b ) flexibility with regards to ionic substitution , and ( c ) anisotropic thermal expansion of the lattice under thermal stress .
lattice parameters	NZP	The lattice parameters are close to the corresponding values for the unsubstituted NZP unit cell .
x-ray powder patterns	unit cell	Interestingly , the mixes 2 12 , 547 , and 759 gave identical x-ray powder patterns having a somewhat smaller unit cell than that of mix 123 .
single phase host structure	NZP	Furthermore , being the only known single phase host structure exhibiting structural stability at high temperatures ( even under radiation exposure ) and low solubility in water in a wide pH range , NZP has been evaluated as a potential alternative to borosilicate glass and polycrystalline Synroc systems .
powder X-ray diffraction	rhombohedral NASICON structure	Rietveld refinement of powder X-ray diffraction data confirmed the basic rhombohedral NASICON structure with random occupancy of the octahedral In / M sites , full occupancy of the Na(1) sites and partial occupancy of the Na(2) sites .
Na ( 2 ) and O( 1 )	rhombohedral NASICON structure	The most significant result of this study is the observation of positional disorder for Na ( 2 ) and O( 1 ) of the rhombohedral NASICON structure .
thermodiffractometric study	rhombohedral NASICON structure	A thermodiffractometric study of this materials indicated that it changes to the rhombohedral NASICON structure above 800 <nUm> .
NASICON structure	Na(1) sites	In the NASICON structure , vacant Na(1) sites lead to increase the height of the Na(1) 6 octahedra and to the associated rotation of Si04 / PO4 tetrahedra .
x = 2	Na(1) sites	At about x = 2 , approximately of the Na(1) sites remains occupied .
three dimensional skeleton	lattice	The three dimensional skeleton assures in these phases the cohesion of the lattice , while the Na(1) and Na(2) sites can be empty , partially or totally occupied .
x of sodium	Na(2) sites	They found that the Na ( l ) site remains fully occupied and the excess x of sodium progressively fills the Na(2) sites .
fivefold coordinated mid-Na interstitial site	Na(2) sites	Concerning the fivefold coordinated mid-Na interstitial site , there is a relatively short average sodium - oxygen distance with participation of three oxygens of a face of the Na06 octahedron ( generally considered as the geometrical bottleneck for the diffusion ) and of two oxygens neighboring Na(2) sites .
fivefold coordinated mid-Na interstitial site	Na06 octahedron	Concerning the fivefold coordinated mid-Na interstitial site , there is a relatively short average sodium - oxygen distance with participation of three oxygens of a face of the Na06 octahedron ( generally considered as the geometrical bottleneck for the diffusion ) and of two oxygens neighboring Na(2) sites .
transition	high - temperature phase	Typically , the transition from the low - temperature phase to the high - temperature phase occurs around 400 C ~ 200 C and depends on the composition .
conduction pathway	between Na(1) and Na(2)	These observations support the conclusion of Kohler and Schulz that an important conduction pathway in NASICON is between Na(1) and Na(2) .
400 K	structural phase transition	In fact , it was later observed ( 3 , 15 ) that the monoclinic low temperature structure transforms into high temperature rhombohedral structure , at temperature close to 400 K , via a structural phase transition .
rhombohedral structure	structural phase transition	In fact , it was later observed ( 3 , 15 ) that the monoclinic low temperature structure transforms into high temperature rhombohedral structure , at temperature close to 400 K , via a structural phase transition .
structural refinement	unit cell	The limited capacity of these machines made it necessary to conduct the structural refinement with the unit cell described as monoclinic ( C2 / c ) .
crystal symmetry	rhombohedra 1	The crystal symmetry is rhombohedra 1 at this temperature , but monoclinic at room temperature .
crystals	rhombohedral symmetry	The crystals obtained by flux and at 1470 <nUm> , hereafter referred as flux and 1470 <nUm> respectively , both exhibit average rhombohedral symmetry , whereas the crystals obtained by fusion , denoted fusion crystals , revealed themselves to be clearly monoclinic as indicated in Table l .
microstructure	conductivity	The microstructure and particularly the porosity have a significant impact on the conductivity .
activation energy	area T1	The activation energy decreases linearly with increasing area T1 , i.e. with wider ionic pathway .
Structure refinement	new compositional model	Structure refinement yielded a new compositional model for the NASICON structure .
Structure refinement	NASICON structure	Structure refinement yielded a new compositional model for the NASICON structure .
framework	XO4 tetrahedra	The framework is built of XO4 tetrahedra linked by corners to MO6 octahedra
High symmetry	cation site	High symmetry form of these compounds has a greater volume of large cation site and this volume can be reduced to a critical size for phase transformation by a reduction in temperature or increase in pressure or by substitution with a smaller alkali cation .
High symmetry	volume	High symmetry form of these compounds has a greater volume of large cation site and this volume can be reduced to a critical size for phase transformation by a reduction in temperature or increase in pressure or by substitution with a smaller alkali cation .
reversion	rhombohedral structure	However , this decrease is accompanied by a reversion to a rhombohedral structure .
symmetric cell	voltage plateau	The symmetric cell based on this bipolar electrode material exhibits a well - defined voltage plateau centered at about 1.4 V in an aqueous electrolyte with a stable cycle performance and superior rate capability .
thermal parameters	occupancy	The thermal parameters were refined with fixed occupancy and showed negative values for at least one of the Na positions .
conductivity	monoclinic phases	In contrast , a dramatic increase in conductivity was observed for the monoclinic phases .
2 = 28 <nUm>	monoclinic phase	The appearance of three reflections at 2 = 19.5 <nUm> and two reflections at 2 = 28 <nUm> are characteristic for the presence of the monoclinic phase in the powder .
Na disorder	low temperature ( ca. 25 <nUm> ) monoclinic phase	This Na disorder is present also in the low temperature ( ca. 25 <nUm> ) monoclinic phase but in neither case is evidence of any splitting of oxygen positions found .
lattice size	electrostatic	b ) the change in lattice size and hence the steric ( but also electrostatic ) change along the conduction paths .
crystals	conduction paths	In a subsequent paper , we will show that the differences between crystals due to more or less extended disorder , are retained at high temperature , and also in particular that each crystal type exhibits a specific behavior which we will examine in relation to the conduction paths .
bottleneck	parameter	The geometrical bottleneck for the diffusion is the triangle formed by the oxygens of the Na06 octahedron and the opening of the bottleneck seems to be associated with the increase of the parameter , maximum at x ~ 2 .
geometrical bottleneck	Na06 octahedron	The geometrical bottleneck for the diffusion is the triangle formed by the oxygens of the Na06 octahedron and the opening of the bottleneck seems to be associated with the increase of the parameter , maximum at x ~ 2 .
T1 triangle	ionic conductivity properties	The changes in area of the T1 triangle ( as simplification to define the irregular M1M2 bottleneck ) correlate with variations in MAS NMR data and in the ionic conductivity properties with composition .
M1M2	ionic conductivity properties	The changes in area of the T1 triangle ( as simplification to define the irregular M1M2 bottleneck ) correlate with variations in MAS NMR data and in the ionic conductivity properties with composition .
T1 triangle	MAS NMR	The changes in area of the T1 triangle ( as simplification to define the irregular M1M2 bottleneck ) correlate with variations in MAS NMR data and in the ionic conductivity properties with composition .
M1M2	MAS NMR	The changes in area of the T1 triangle ( as simplification to define the irregular M1M2 bottleneck ) correlate with variations in MAS NMR data and in the ionic conductivity properties with composition .
bottleneck	M1M2 conduction pathway	The T1 triangle is identified as the key bottleneck in the irregular , M1M2 conduction pathway .
T1 triangle	bottleneck	The T1 triangle is identified as the key bottleneck in the irregular , M1M2 conduction pathway .
temperature	potential barrier	They observed that the opening of bottleneck increases when the temperature is raised , which is associated with the decrease of the potential barrier and the increase of the hexagonal c parameter .
temperature	hexagonal c parameter	They observed that the opening of bottleneck increases when the temperature is raised , which is associated with the decrease of the potential barrier and the increase of the hexagonal c parameter .
bottleneck	Li-O distances	The most probable position would be at a bottleneck , since this would allow the shortest Li-O distances .
activation energy	T1 area	The activation energy decreases when the T1 area increases .
resistance	impedance plot	Therefore , only the total resistance , RTotal , as a sum of bulk and grain boundary phenomena was deduced from the impedance plot .
resistance	bulk	Therefore , only the total resistance , RTotal , as a sum of bulk and grain boundary phenomena was deduced from the impedance plot .
electrical response	bulk	This set of semicircles indicates that several effects are involved in the electrical response of the pellets , including bulk and grain boundary contributions .
activation energies	distances	For smaller Na(1) - Na(2) the activation energies slightly increase with shorter distances .
mid-Na position	halfway between Na(1) and Na(2)	However , the mid-Na position of Boilot et al. , , is halfway between Na(1) and Na(2) , = 1.8 A from Na(2) , whereas our Na(2' ) position is only ca. 1 from Na(2) .
interstitial sodium position	from Na(2) toward Na(1)	The interstitial sodium position , Na(2') , is displaced ca. from Na(2) toward Na(1) as shown in fig. 3 .
sites	Na(1)	These sites are arranged octahedrally around Na(1) at a distance of 3.5 A and in an approximately trigonal prismatic configuration around Na(2) at distances of 4.72 and 5.02 A ( Fig.4 ) .
anharmonic temperature factors	Na(1)	For the refinement of the 403K data anharmonic temperature factors ( 6 ) have been used up to third order for Na(2) and up to fourth or der for Na(1) .
conductivity	NASICON	( c ) Finally , the high conductivity of NASICON was geometrically rationalized in terms of the dimensions of the window between Na(1) and Na(2) positions .
Na(2' )	occupancy	After convergence , the second peak was added as Na(2' ) with its occupancy constrained with that of Na(2) .
Na(2f)	6-fold coordination consisting of atoms and two atoms	Atom Na(2) is 8-coordinate with regular Na-O bond distances , By contrast Na(2f) is in 6-fold coordination consisting of atoms and two atoms .
Founer maps	the starting positional and thermal parameters	Difference Founer maps calculated after the starting positional and thermal parameters had been refined to convergence revealed the presence of sizable residual peaks near O(1) and Na(2) .
Na(2) and O(1)	rhombohedral NASICON	The observation in this study of split positions for Na(2) and O(1) in a rhombohedral NASICON may be compared to other recent findings of defect NASICON structures .
Na(2)	8-coordinate	Atom Na(2) is 8-coordinate with regular Na-O bond distances .
Fourier analysis	electron density	Difference Fourier analysis showed an unusual deformation of electron density around Na(2) positions suggesting the harmonic vibration model is not adequate to describe the thermal motion of Na(2) at high temperatures .
Foumier maps	electron density	Difference Foumier maps show significant electron density along Na(2)-Na(2) paths and Na(2) thermal ellipsoids have major axes close to these paths .
occupancy	Na atomic positions	to fix the occupancy at higher values resulted in thermal displacement parameters with negative electron density for at least one of the Na atomic positions .
temperature	mid-Na position	However , when the temperature increases , the Na ( l ) site occupancy slightly increases to the detriment of the mid-Na one and the mid-Na position slightly moves to the Na(2) position .
The companion cation of the network	octahedral site	The companion cation of the network can have a tetrahedral site preference or an octahedral site preference .
electrochemical performance	ion - diffusion pathway	Furthermore , the electrochemical performance can also be greatly improved by doping , shortening the ion - diffusion pathway , and by carbon coating .
IR spectra	mixed lithium zirconium vanadate phosphates	According to the selection rules , the IR spectra of mixed lithium zirconium vanadate phosphates ( space group P21 / n ) may exhibit 18 asymmetric stretching bands and 6 symmetric stretching bands .
the IR spectra of mixed lithium zirconium vanadate phosphates	18 asymmetric stretching bands and 6 symmetric stretching bands	According to the selection rules , the IR spectra of mixed lithium zirconium vanadate phosphates ( space group P21 / n ) may exhibit 18 asymmetric stretching bands and 6 symmetric stretching bands .
space group	structural parameters	When the convergence was reached under this space group , an analysis of the output structural parameters showed the existence of a very probable inversion centre .
space group	probable inversion centre	When the convergence was reached under this space group , an analysis of the output structural parameters showed the existence of a very probable inversion centre .
alkali ion conductivities	skeleton structures	me research reported here was motivated by active interest in solid electrolytes having fast alkali ion transport and by the proposition ( l ) that solid electrolytes having alkali ion conductivities approaching those of liquids should occur in skeleton structures .
solid electrolytes	skeleton structures	me research reported here was motivated by active interest in solid electrolytes having fast alkali ion transport and by the proposition ( l ) that solid electrolytes having alkali ion conductivities approaching those of liquids should occur in skeleton structures .
alkali ion conductivities	skeleton structures	me research reported here was motivated by active interest in solid electrolytes having fast alkali ion transport and by the proposition ( l ) that solid electrolytes having alkali ion conductivities approaching those of liquids should occur in skeleton structures .
solid electrolytes	skeleton structures	The research reported here was motivated by active interest in solid electrolytes having fast alkali ion transport and by the proposition that solid electrolytes having alkali ion conductivities approaching those of liquids should occur in skeleton structures .
alkali ion conductivities	skeleton structures	The research reported here was motivated by active interest in solid electrolytes having fast alkali ion transport and by the proposition that solid electrolytes having alkali ion conductivities approaching those of liquids should occur in skeleton structures .
solid electrolytes	alkali ion	The research reported here was motivated by active interest in solid electrolytes having fast alkali ion transport and by the proposition that solid electrolytes having alkali ion conductivities approaching those of liquids should occur in skeleton structures .
solid electrolytes	alkali ion conductivities	The research reported here was motivated by active interest in solid electrolytes having fast alkali ion transport and by the proposition that solid electrolytes having alkali ion conductivities approaching those of liquids should occur in skeleton structures .
x-ray	single crystalline phase	With the exception of mixes 513 and 725 , the x-ray data of all products showed a single crystalline phase , as listed in Table l .
layer structures	alumina	If anions bond to three network cations , layer structures such as alumina may be anticipated .
anions bond	cations	If anions bond to three network cations , layer structures such as alumina may be anticipated .
alkali ion	M 1 position	From Fig.l , the alkali ion occupies an M 1 position , which has as nearest neighbors two octahedral site faces on opposite sides parallel to the basal plane .
M 1 position	octahedral site	From Fig.l , the alkali ion occupies an M 1 position , which has as nearest neighbors two octahedral site faces on opposite sides parallel to the basal plane .
Rw(F) / R(F) = 0.019 / O.020	Nal site	A fit of Rw(F) / R(F) = 0.019 / O.020 were attained when the Nal site and the oxygen sites were refined with additional higher order temperature factor coefficients ( TABLE III ) .
Nal site	temperature factor coefficients	A fit of Rw(F) / R(F) = 0.019 / O.020 were attained when the Nal site and the oxygen sites were refined with additional higher order temperature factor coefficients ( TABLE III ) .
single crystals	rectangular shape	The small single crystals are colorless with a rectangular shape .
transport properties	phosphate phases	A study of the transport properties of the phosphate phases is in progress .
rotation	phosphate tetrahedron	Inthis model the rotation of the phosphate tetrahedron is coupled to the rotation of
zirconium octahedron	Zr-Ol bonds	The zirconium octahedron ( point symmetry 3) contains three Zr-Ol bonds of 2.041 A and three Zr-O2 bonds of 2.094 A ( Table III ) .
Thermal expansion	NZP	Thermal expansion of NZP ( x = 0.11 ) parallel to the hexagonal c axis is positive ( about 22.4X 10 6 <nUm> 1 between 25 <nUm> and 700 <nUm> ) , whereas expansion perpendicular to c is slightly negative ( about 5.4X 10 6 <nUm> ) , in an average volume thermal expansion of ll.8X10 6 <nUm> 1 .
anisotropic coefficients	x = 2	They reported that the anisotropic coefficients of thermal expansion for the composition x = 2 are 1.6 X10 ~ 5 and 3.2x ~ 6 <nUm> Cl , parallel to and normal to the c axis , respectively .
c axis	volume	Therefore , as a function of the composition , small thermal changes are observed along the c axis and the variation of the volume expansion is essentially due to changes along the a axis .
TiO6 octahedron	25 <nUm> to 2.25 Aa 800 <nUm>	The face to face distance in the TiO6 octahedron , along the c axis direction , is nearly constant with a small contraction from 2.28 , at 25 <nUm> to 2.25 Aa 800 <nUm> .
rotation	length	This rotation acts to increase the height of the Na(1) octahedra and is responsible for the anomalous maximum in the length of the c axis .
thermal expansion	sodium site	The large thermal expansion of the sodium site is offset by rotations in the Zr-P polyhedral framework , thus yielding the low net expansion of NZP .
thermal expansion	rotations	The large thermal expansion of the sodium site is offset by rotations in the Zr-P polyhedral framework , thus yielding the low net expansion of NZP .
net expansion	NZP	The large thermal expansion of the sodium site is offset by rotations in the Zr-P polyhedral framework , thus yielding the low net expansion of NZP .
large thermal expansion of the sodium site is offset by rotations in the Zr-P polyhedral framework	net expansion	The large thermal expansion of the sodium site is offset by rotations in the Zr-P polyhedral framework , thus yielding the low net expansion of NZP .
Nal-O2 bonds	from 2.556 A at room temperature to 2.653 A at 690 <nUm>	The largest change in cationanion distances occurs in the sodium site ; Nal-O2 bonds expand from 2.556 A at room temperature to 2.653 A at 690 <nUm> .
cationanion cation angles	NZP	Changes in cationanion cation angles are particularly dramatic in NZP and are important in understanding the mechanisms of nearzero net thermal expansionin a compound with a rapidly expanding sodium site .
thermal expansionin	sodium site	Changes in cationanion cation angles are particularly dramatic in NZP and are important in understanding the mechanisms of nearzero net thermal expansionin a compound with a rapidly expanding sodium site .
Na-O interatomic distances	coordination polyhedra	If we consider only the Na-O interatomic distances that are less than 3 , then the coordination polyhedra are very similar to those reported by others ( 2 , 7 ) .
c parameter	x = 3	In contrast , as x increases , the hexagonal ( or pseudohexagonal ) c parameter rises to a maximum near x 2 and then therefore anomalously decreases up to x = 3 .
O-Zr-O angles range from 84 <nUm> - 93 <nUm> at room temperature	moderate distortion of this cation polyhedron	The adjacent O-Zr-O angles range from 84 <nUm> - 93 <nUm> at room temperature , reflecting the moderate distortion of this cation polyhedron .
orbital	bonds	The 'd orbital contribution helps the bonds to keep directed towards the corners of a regular octahedron .
corners	regular octahedron	The 'd orbital contribution helps the bonds to keep directed towards the corners of a regular octahedron .
Nal vibration	ellipsoid	The Nal vibration may bedescribed by a flattened ellipsoid with rms displacements parallel to c , only half of those in the ( 2 ) plane .
Nal vibration	rms displacements	The Nal vibration may bedescribed by a flattened ellipsoid with rms displacements parallel to c , only half of those in the ( 3 ) plane .
occupancy of the Na2 site	at 993K	The occupancy of the Na2 site - not significant at room temperature - was refined to about at 993K .
occupancy	Na2 site	In contrast to the investigations at room temperature , where an occupancy of the Na2 site can not .
Na2 site	occupancy	Because the Na2 site is special , only x ( o ) , 14 anisotropic temperature coefficients and the occupancy had to be refined .
mean thermal expansion coefficient	ZrO6 octahedron	The mean thermal expansion coefficient , as defined by Cameron ef al. ( 16 ) is 0.52 x 10 <nUm> C-1 for the ZrO6 octahedron and 0.33 x 10 <nUm> C-1 for the SiO4 tetrahedron .
0.52 x 10 <nUm> C-1	ZrO6 octahedron	The mean thermal expansion coefficient , as defined by Cameron ef al. ( 16 ) is 0.52 x 10 <nUm> C-1 for the ZrO6 octahedron and 0.33 x 10 <nUm> C-1 for the SiO4 tetrahedron .
cations	ionic radii	The cations are distributed among the different crystallo graphic sites in dependence on their ionic radii .
crystallo graphic sites	ionic radii	The cations are distributed among the different crystallo graphic sites in dependence on their ionic radii .
2-fold symmetry	transition	Particularly , the phosphate group looses its 2-fold symmetry during the transition from the R-3c to the R3 space group .
phosphate group	2-fold symmetry	Particularly , the phosphate group looses its 2-fold symmetry during the transition from the R-3c to the R3 space group .
Ni2O10 units	[NiO6] octahedra	The essential building units of the structure are Ni2O10 units resulting from two edge - sharing [NiO6] octahedra .
chains	site Na+	Coordination of these chains yields two distinct tunnels in which site Na+ .
PO4 group	corners	Each PO4 group shares two corners with two Moo6 octahedra within one of the three strings and two cornet-s each with a Moo6 and a Na06 polyhedron within a neighboring string .
corner	MO6 octahedron	Each XO4 tetrahedron shares each corner with one MO6 octahedron and , conversely , each MO6 octahedron shares each corner with a different XO4 group
bottlenecks	radii	Moreover , the smallest cross sectional areas of an interstitial passageway , designated bottlenecks , should have smallest diameters greater than twice the sum of the anion and alkali ion radii .
bottlenecks	NaO6- octahedra	The bottlenecks of diffusion lie within the faces of the NaO6- octahedra .
bottlenecks	diffusion	The bottlenecks of diffusion lie within the faces of the NaO 6- octahedra .
single - phase	kosnarite	This study demonstrates the potential possibility of single - phase environmentally stable kosnarite materials to the immobilization of significant concentrations of different alkali metals from the melts .
kosnarite	alkali metals	This study demonstrates the potential possibility of single - phase environmentally stable kosnarite materials to the immobilization of significant concentrations of different alkali metals from the melts .
Complex phase	phosphate	Complex phase formation character was observed in the phosphate systems .
monoclinic NASICON	hydrothermal route	We have subsequently prepared monoclinic NASICON by a hydrothermal route ( 8 , 9 ) , and found this product to be free of contaminate crystalline phases .
monoclinic NASICON	crystalline phases	We have subsequently prepared monoclinic NASICON by a hydrothermal route ( 8 , 9 ) , and found this product to be free of contaminate crystalline phases .
reheated	single phases	Samples were then reground and reheated to obtain single phases .
phase transformation	space group Rc	It has been shown that the first phase transformation in the range 40 - 60 <nUm> is accompanied by an increase in the density and a change to the space group Rc .
bond lengths	(P,V)O4 polyhedrta	O bond lengths in the (P,V)O4 polyhedrta vary from 1.53 to 1.67 .
framework cavities	volume	The framework cavities have a complex shape and a relatively small volume .
electron density	coordination octahedron	Refining the room temperature data of an end member ( x = O ) of the NASICON solid solution system we found a residual electron density inside the coordination octahedron .
symmetrically equivalent oxygen site	POI* - tetrahedron	Each of these shifts is transferred to the symmetrically equivalent oxygen site of the common POI* - tetrahedron .
Lattice constants	NASICON	Lattice constants of a NASICON end member ( x = O ) as a function of temperature ( where no error bar is given , it is less than the size of the point ) .
occupancy	Zr site	Refining the occupancy of the Zr site and only anisotropic temperature factors we attained Rw(F) / R(F) = O.024 / 0.021 .
occupancy	Rw(F) / R(F) = O.024 / 0.021	Refining the occupancy of the Zr site and only anisotropic temperature factors we attained Rw(F) / R(F) = O.024 / 0.021 .
Zr site	y = 0.22	From the occupation probability of the Zr site we get y = 0.22 .
NZP	thermal expansion	Thermal expansion of NZP ( x = 0.11 ) parallel to the hexagonal c axis is positive ( about 22.4X 10 6 <nUm> 1 between 25 <nUm> and 700 <nUm> ) , whereas expansion perpendicular to c is slightly negative ( about 5.4X 10 6 <nUm> ) , in an average volume thermal expansion of 11.8X10 6 <nUm> 1 .
anisotropy	X ray diffraction	One of the authors had calculated its thermal expansion ( 2 ) from room temperature up to 500 <nUm> , finding a negative thermal expansion coefficient of -5.5 x 10 -6 <nUm> C-1 by dilatometry , and a strong anisotropy , from high temperature X ray diffraction , with coefficients a(a) = -5.61 x 10 -6 <nUm> -1 ( 25 <nUm> to 500 <nUm> ) and a(c) = 12.8 x 10 -6 <nUm> -1 ( 25 <nUm> to 200 <nUm> ) and 28.1 x 10 -6 <nUm> C-1 ( 200 <nUm> to 500 <nUm> ) showing a deflection in the expansion along the hexagonal c axis .
1.8 _ < x _ < 2.2	monoclinic C2 / c symmetry	All structures were rhombohedral R ~ c except in the range 1.8 _ < x _ < 2.2 , where a  to monoclinic C2 / c symmetry occurs
temperature	SnO6 polyhedra	The change in temperature makes the SnO6 polyhedra rotate around the three fold axis in both structures .
SnO6 polyhedra	three fold axis	The change in temperature makes the SnO6 polyhedra rotate around the three fold axis in both structures .
thermal expansion	lattice	The thermal expansion of the lattice is twice as large in the basal a1-a2 plane than in the perpendicular direction .
thermal expansion	a1-a2 plane	The thermal expansion of the lattice is twice as large in the basal a1-a2 plane than in the perpendicular direction .
thermal expansion	NZP	In spite of the small thermal expansion of NZP , there are several significant changes in the sizes and orientations of structural elements , with changing temperature .
structural elements	changing temperature	In spite of the small thermal expansion of NZP , there are several significant changes in the sizes and orientations of structural elements , with changing temperature .
orientations	structural elements	In spite of the small thermal expansion of NZP , there are several significant changes in the sizes and orientations of structural elements , with changing temperature .
NZP type compounds	compressibilities	The NZP type compounds have the potential for cooperative interaction of these two mechanisms , which could lead to large compressibilities .
structural properties	electric conductivities	As well as charge carrier concentration , structural properties are also important factors in determining electric conductivities .
lattice parameters	tetrahedral unit	This indicates a change of lattice parameters to conform to the size of a new tetrahedral unit , (P,As)-O4 .
(P,As)-O4 tetrahedra	Rietveld analysis	of (P,As)-O4 tetrahedra , as determined by Rietveld analysis .
As - O	stretching	recorded and assignments of the As - O stretching and bending modes were made .
NASICON	hydrothermal	which suggests that the observed stoichiometric differences can be attributed to the different paths by which each NASICON was prepared : high temperature solid state reaction , hydrothermal , or sol gel procedure ( 13 ) .
NASICON	solid state reaction	which suggests that the observed stoichiometric differences can be attributed to the different paths by which each NASICON was prepared : high temperature solid state reaction , hydrothermal , or sol gel procedure ( 13 ) .
dimensions	Na ( l )	( c ) Finally , the high conductivity of NASICON was geometrically rationalized in terms of the dimensions of the window between Na ( l ) and Na(2) positions .
conductivity	dimensions	( c ) Finally , the high conductivity of NASICON was geometrically rationalized in terms of the dimensions of the window between Na ( l ) and Na(2) positions .
framework ions	oxygens	For the framework ions , it may be noted , in the range 2 < x < 2.4 , that oxygens exhibit relatively high vibration amplitudes , almost isotropic and weakly dependent on the temperature , in agreement with a Si04 / PO4 tetrahedra disorder .
2 < x < 2.4	vibration amplitudes	For the framework ions , it may be noted , in the range 2 < x < 2.4 , that oxygens exhibit relatively high vibration amplitudes , almost isotropic and weakly dependent on the temperature , in agreement with a Si04 / PO4 tetrahedra disorder .
oxygens	Si04 / PO4 tetrahedra	For the framework ions , it may be noted , in the range 2 < x < 2.4 , that oxygens exhibit relatively high vibration amplitudes , almost isotropic and weakly dependent on the temperature , in agreement with a Si04 / PO4 tetrahedra disorder .
occupation	mid-Na interstitial sites	This obviously confirms that the occupation of mid-Na interstitial sites automatically excludes the occupation of neighboring equilibrium Na(2) positions .
mid-Na interstitial sites	Na(2) positions	This obviously confirms that the occupation of mid-Na interstitial sites automatically excludes the occupation of neighboring equilibrium Na(2) positions .
thermal annealing	NASICON crystals	Nevertheless , as shown in Fig. 3 , by long thermal annealing just below the melting point ( for instance 4 months at 12450C ) , an abnormal growth of NASICON crystals is observed ( dimensions of crystals are typically 100 300 em ) .
Si - P tetrahedra	x = 2	The principal changes in the framework with change in composition are distortion and increased rotation of the Si - P tetrahedra up to x = 2 , followed by progressive return toward the original orientation for larger x .
Na06 octahedron	from 3.86 A at 25 <nUm> to 4.08 A at 800 <nUm>	So , both facts makes the face to face distance in the Na06 octahedron , along the c axis direction , to enlarge from 3.86 A at 25 <nUm> to 4.08 A at 800 <nUm> .
phase transition	rhombohedral symmetry	At the first phase transition at 323 K , the average rhombohedral symmetry is restored , accompanied by a decrease in the ctrig lattice constant from 22.7 A to 22.3 .
lattice constant	from 22.7 A to 22.3	At the first phase transition at 323 K , the average rhombohedral symmetry is restored , accompanied by a decrease in the ctrig lattice constant from 22.7 A to 22.3 .
mid-Na	five-fold coordinated polyhedron	There are six mid-Na per unit formula in a five-fold coordinated polyhedron .
mid-Na	interstitial position	The mid-Na exhibits the expected behavior of an interstitial position within the conduction path with very large thermal components ( especially U22 , U33 , and IJ23 ) and a weak temperature dependence .
interstitial position	thermal components	The mid-Na exhibits the expected behavior of an interstitial position within the conduction path with very large thermal components ( especially U22 , U33 , and IJ23 ) and a weak temperature dependence .
interionic repulsions	mid-Na interstitial site	We observe , as a consequence of interionic repulsions , the partial occupation of a mid-Na interstitial site within the conduction path .
host material	redox agent	No crystals with a T1 content < 0.2 were obtained which is attributed to the strong reaction between the host material and the redox agent .
crystals	structural characteristics	These three preparation methods give crystals which differ somewhat from one another and in particular exhibit different structural characteristics and thermal behavior .
trigonal rhombohedral	lattice parameters	This is confirmed by the fact that both crystals reveal the existence of a superstructure of the trigonal rhombohedral cell with lattice constants ( 2a,2a,c ) where a and c refer to the parent Nasicon lattice parameters given in Table I .
crystals	y type structure	Finally the crystals described in Refs and are related to the y type structure , which presents the highest degree of disorder .
NASICON crystals	rhombohedral average lattice	NASICON crystals are systematically twinned with respect to the rhombohedral average lattice : reflections in hexagonal notation are simultaneously present ( observe and reverse description , respectively ) .
lattice constant	hexagonal cells	Refined lattice constant are compared in Table I in terms of hexagonal cells .
coordinates	X-ray crystal structure determinations	For the compounds with compositions in the range 2 < x < 2.4 , the coordinates and thermal parameters obtained by X-ray crystal structure determinations are summarized in Table Il .
Na ( l ) occupation	conductivity	More interesting is that the Na ( l ) occupation and obviously the mid-Na occupation are clearly related to the variations in conductivity with composition .
Sodium atom anisotropies	NASICON type structure	Sodium atom anisotropies are qualitatively similar to that found in the most previous analysis of the NASICON type structure .
443 K	NaV1-O	The Na(1)-O(2) distances are also long : 2.67 at 443 K for x = 2.05 to be compared with 2.39 for NaV1-O ( six coordination ) .
Na(1)-O(2) distances	443 K	The Na(1)-O(2) distances are also long : 2.67 at 443 K for x = 2.05 to be compared with 2.39 for NaV1-O ( six coordination ) .
c hexagonal parameter	x = 2	In contrast , as for c hexagonal parameter and Na ( l ) filling ratio , we note an anomalous behavior for the variation with composition of which presents a maximum near x = 2 .
x = 2	occupation factor	Therefore , the maximum of conductivity at x = 2 is directly related to the maximum of the occupation factor of the interstitial mid-Na site .
conductivity	occupation factor	Therefore , the maximum of conductivity at x = 2 is directly related to the maximum of the occupation factor of the interstitial mid-Na site .
occupation factor	interstitial mid-Na site	Therefore , the maximum of conductivity at x = 2 is directly related to the maximum of the occupation factor of the interstitial mid-Na site .
crystal	fusion	This means that they are in a physical state distinct from that of the crystal obtained by fusion .
P(1)O 4 tetrahedra	two dimensional sheet	These units are connected so as to form a ribbon along the [100]m alrection , ana the ribbons are linked together by P(1)O 4 tetrahedra to form a two dimensional sheet .
expansion	distortions	The expansion in the c direction , that is +0.652A , isduein +0.686A to the rotations and distortions in the PO4 group and in -0.034A to the face to face distance contraction of the TiO6 octahedron .
expansion	rotations	The expansion in the c direction , that is +0.652A , isduein +0.686A to the rotations and distortions in the PO4 group and in -0.034A to the face to face distance contraction of the TiO6 octahedron .
distortions	PO4 group	The expansion in the c direction , that is +0.652A , isduein +0.686A to the rotations and distortions in the PO4 group and in -0.034A to the face to face distance contraction of the TiO6 octahedron .
Na(2' )	O(1)	Moreover , there is an apparent interaction between Na(2' ) and O(1) of ca. 2.1 , significantly shorter than the 2.4 predicted for 6-coordinate sodium from ionic radii .
6-coordinate sodium	ionic radii	Moreover , there is an apparent interaction between Na(2' ) and O(1) of ca. 2.1 , significantly shorter than the 2.4 predicted for 6-coordinate sodium from ionic radii .
O(1)	O(1' )	However , the refined populations of Na(2' ) and O(1) are such that their sum is less than 100 % at all temperatures studied , so the disorder between O(1) and O(1' ) may preclude the presence of such an unfavorable interaction in the structure .
Na(2' )	O(1)	However , the refined populations of Na(2' ) and O(1) are such that their sum is less than 100 % at all temperatures studied , so the disorder between O(1) and O(1' ) may preclude the presence of such an unfavorable interaction in the structure .
temperature	O(1')	As the temperature is increased , O(1') moves away from O(1 ) while at the same time , the occupancy of O( 1' ) diminishes .
occupancy	site	Given the low occupancy of this site , the variation in thermal parameters , and the general limitations of the Rietveld technique , it is difficult to assess the importance of this trend .
occupancy	O ( 1 ' ) site	Nevertheless , it is notable that the occupancy of the O ( 1 ' ) site reaches an apparent minimum at a value that is equal , within experimental error , to the occupancy of the Na(2' ) Site .
parameters	O(1')	Unlike those of atom Na(2') the positional and population parameters of O(1') show apparent correlations with temperature .
interstitial oxygen atom O(1')	O(1)	The interstitial oxygen atom O(1') is located ca. 0.5 from O(1) .
O(1)	M-O bond	This O(1) movement counteracts the M-O bond decrease which results in a very small variation of the a-axis along the series .
interstitial Na+	channel	This result is very interesting since it places the interstitial Na+ in the same channel as we find the Na(2') position in the present structure .
channel	Na(2') position	This result is very interesting since it places the interstitial Na+ in the same channel as we find the Na(2') position in the present structure .
Na(2')	O(1')	This limit may be a manifestation of the strong preference for Na(2') - O(1') interactions ver the highly unfavorable 2.1 Na(2') inteaction discussed earlier .
400 <nUm>	Rietveld refinement	In addition , the interstitial Na+ population found by Boilot et al. , 11 % , compares favorably with the we obtained in the 400 <nUm> Rietveld refinement .
interstitial Na+ population	Rietveld refinement	In addition , the interstitial Na+ population found by Boilot et al. , 11 % , compares favorably with the we obtained in the 400 <nUm> Rietveld refinement .
microcrystalline black powder	nasicon type phase	The microcrystalline black powder obtained by this method corresponds to the pure nasicon type phase .
rotation	phosphate group	The component of the rotation of the edge O12 - O12 in the phosphate group out of the ( 2110 ) plane is very small , but that of the edge O21 - O22 , around the [0001] direction is big .
edge O21 - O22	[0001] direction	The component of the rotation of the edge O12 - O12 in the phosphate group out of the ( 2110 ) plane is very small , but that of the edge O21 - O22 , around the [0001] direction is big .
rotation	edge O12 - O12	The component of the rotation of the edge O12 - O12 in the phosphate group out of the ( 2110 ) plane is very small , but that of the edge O21 - O22 , around the [0001] direction is big .
R-factor	R3 space group	Instead , the only group that started yielding a lower Bragg R-factor was the R3 space group .
c-glide plane	transition point	The only known fact about the structure was that the c-glide plane , present above the transition point , is lost in the low temperature form .
refinement	neutron data	Even in the refinement of the neutron data , it has been necessary to start with a model with lower symmetry than that used in the last refinement , i.e. , a bigger freedom in the atom parameters has been required in order to achieve suitable changes during the first cycles of refinement .
rotations	temperature	The magnitude of the rotations is plotted vs. the temperature in figure 2 .
Rotations	SnO6 octahedra	Rotations in the first SnO6 octahedra are somewhat smaller .
SnO6 octahedra	distortion	It is apparent that the SnO6 octahedra present a higher distortion .
Nb3X4 structure	quasi one dimensionality of metal zig zag chains running parallel to the crystallographic c axis	One of the main features of the Nb3X4 structure is the quasi one dimensionality of metal zig zag chains running parallel to the crystallographic c axis .
Nb3X4 structure	homogeneity	In the course of a systematic investigation of the electronic and chemical properties of compounds with the Nb3X4 structure the TlxTi6Se8 system has been synthesized in a wide homogeneity range ( 0.23 < x < 0.8 ) .
TlxTi6Se8 system	0.23 < x < 0.8	In the course of a systematic investigation of the electronic and chemical properties of compounds with the Nb3X4 structure the TlxTi6Se8 system has been synthesized in a wide homogeneity range ( 0.23 < x < 0.8 ) .
electrical conductivity	temperature	These observations let us speculate that the electrical conductivity as a function of temperature parallel to the c-axis should exhibit pronounced differences between these two compounds .
thermal expansion	crystallographic a-axis	The thermal expansion of the crystallographic a-axis is two times larger than that of the c-axis .
c-axis	M-O bond distances	The decrease in c-axis with x is due to a diminution of the average M-O bond distances , Table 3 .
high reactivity	extensive compositional micro inhomogeneitie	The high reactivity is attributed to extensive compositional micro inhomogeneities which are detected using EDA .
extensive compositional micro inhomogeneitie	EDA	The high reactivity is attributed to extensive compositional micro inhomogeneities which are detected using EDA .
distance	Ti-Ti zig zag chains	In the T1 rich sample the distance within and between Ti-Ti zig zag chains decreases with temperature whereas the opposite trend is observed in the T1 poor sample .
distance	temperature	In the T1 rich sample the distance within and between Ti-Ti zig zag chains decreases with temperature whereas the opposite trend is observed in the T1 poor sample .
disorder	295 K	The disorder is larger at 100 K than at 295 K .
disorder	decreasing temperature	The disorder increases with decreasing temperature .
temperature	interchain distance	With decreasing temperature the Ti-Tilntra separation remains constant ( 3.224(5) A at 100 K ) , whereas the interchain distance decreases to 3.271(3) A .
Ti-Tilntra	interchain distance	With decreasing temperature the Ti-Tilntra separation remains constant ( 3.224(5) A at 100 K ) , whereas the interchain distance decreases to 3.271(3) A .
macroscopic damage	crystal	Even at low magnification the macroscopic damage of the crystal is clearly seen .
standard deviations	correlation between the z coordinate	The reason for the large standard deviations is the high correlation between the z coordinate .
O2	z coordinate	O2 with the same z coordinate , decreases from 65.6 <nUm> at 25 <nUm> to 63.4 <nUm> at 800 <nUm> .
deep reefs running parallel to the needle axis	chemical etching	Higher magnifications reveal deep reefs running parallel to the needle axis due to preferred chemical etching of the substrate .
z parameter	0 and 0.25	The obtained z parameter is exactly located between the two special coordinates 0 and 0.25 .
Low temperature	X-ray crystal structure determinations	Low temperature X-ray crystal structure determinations were performed to elucidate the reason for the unusual high anisotropic displacement component ( ADP ) U33 .
high anisotropic displacement component	U33	Low temperature X-ray crystal structure determinations were performed to elucidate the reason for the unusual high anisotropic displacement component ( ADP ) U33 .
morphology	single crystal	Scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) and energy dispersive analysis ( EDA ) were applied to characterize the morphology as well as the microhomogeneity of the single crystal under investigation .
energy dispersive analysis ( EDA )	morphology as well as the microhomogeneity of the single crystal	Scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) and energy dispersive analysis ( EDA ) were applied to characterize the morphology as well as the microhomogeneity of the single crystal under investigation .
genuine crystals	smooth surface	The genuine crystals exhibit a smooth surface , but deintercalation produces pronounced features leading to a preferential etching of the mosaic structure of the single crystal .
mosaic structure	single crystal	The genuine crystals exhibit a smooth surface , but deintercalation produces pronounced features leading to a preferential etching of the mosaic structure of the single crystal .
points	reflections	The background was estimated by linear interpolation between points corresponding to regions without reflections .
height	Ti / Sn]O6 octahedron	Effectively , the height of TiO6 octahedron is DC = 2.278A whereas that of [ Ti / Sn]O6 octahedron is DC = 2.3166 A .
height	DC	Effectively , the height of TiO6 octahedron is DC = 2.278A whereas that of [ Ti / Sn]O6 octahedron is DC = 2.3166 A .
NaO6 trigonal antiprism	MoO6 octahedra	Each NaO6 trigonal antiprism shares its opposite faces with two MoO6 octahedra ( Fig. 2 ) .
MoO6 octahedron	Mo-O bond distances	For each MoO6 octahedron two sorts of Mo-O bond distances are observed .
MoO6 octahedron	O-O distances	The MoO6 octahedron is distorted as shown by the O-O distances ranging from 2.697(3) to 2.870(2) .
deconvoluted	Rietveld method	Thus , in order to solve the atomic structure in polycrystalline samples , the X-ray diffraction profiles at the same five different tem peratures were deconvoluted using the Rietveld method .
X-ray diffraction	temperatures	Thus , in order to solve the atomic structure in polycrystalline samples , the X-ray diffraction profiles at the same five different temperatures were deconvoluted using the Rietveld method .
angles O2-Na-O2	elongated octahedron	The internal angles O2-Na-O2 in the elongated octahedron are related each other by the symmetry 3 .
chemical structure	temperatures	This effect hes been determined experimentally by solving the chemical structure at five different temperatures , applying the Rietveld method to deconvolute the powder X-ray diffraction profiles .
Rietveld method	powder X-ray diffraction profiles	This effect hes been determined experimentally by solving the chemical structure at five different temperatures , applying the Rietveld method to deconvolute the powder X-ray diffraction profiles .
structural mechanism	itsanisotropic thermal expansion	( i ) What is the structural mechanism that yields itsanisotropic thermal expansion ? .
calcination	NaTi2(PO4)3 phase	After calcination at 1100 <nUm> only the NaTi2(PO4)3 phase was present .
calcination	1100 <nUm>	After calcination at 1100 <nUm> only the NaTi2(PO4)3 phase was present .
refinement	zeropoint	The refinement process was developed in sequential steps : i ) The scale factor , ii ) The zeropoint , the eccentricity and the hexagonal lattice parameters a and c .
refinement	scale factor	The refinement process was developed in sequential steps : i ) The scale factor , ii ) The zeropoint , the eccentricity and the hexagonal lattice parameters a and c .
tetrahedron PO4	angle O1-P-O1	In the tetrahedron PO4 , the angle O1-P-O1 increases from 112.1 <nUm> up to 113.3 <nUm> at 400 <nUm> , and then staying constant up to 800 <nUm> .
height	prismatic hole	This makes the height of the prismatic hole increase slightly from 2.48 at 25 <nUm> to 2.5 , at 800 <nUm> .
The contraction in the a direction from 25 <nUm> to 800 <nUm>	the rotation of the phosphate group	The contraction in the a direction from 25 <nUm> to 800 <nUm> , that is -0.0291A , is due in -0.0824A to the rotation of the phosphate group and
temperature	NaO6 octahedra	The effect of the temperature on the NaO6 octahedra is to enlarge it , but not so much as to get the size of the KO6 .
ionic radii	octahedral cations	The compositional limit , xmax , depends on the nature and ionic radii of the octahedral cations .
berlinite	tetrahedral AlO4 groups	Phases such as berlinite , with tetrahedral AlO4 groups , are very stable and once formed do not react to yield the desired material .
powder patterns	R3-c NASICON type structure	The powder patterns could be fully explained by the typical R3-c NASICON type structure .
diffractometric study	R3-c NASICON type structure	The diffractometric study showed that these compounds crystallise in the R3-c NASICON type structure and the structural changes along the series have been elucidated .
725 <nUm>	polycrystalline phases	The X-ray diffraction study shows that the samples obtained at 725 <nUm> were polycrystalline phases .
occupation factors	Na(2) site	Hence , the occupation factors of Na(2) site were also fixed to the nominal values .
2.66 A	620 <nUm>	The second , connecting a Na(2) site to a Na(2) site , is larger ( 2.37 A ) and increases to 2.66 A at 620 <nUm> .
low temperature	crystallinity	However , the low temperature synthesis leads to a compound with low crystallinity , without sharp peaks , that precludes the structure determination from powder diffraction data .
crystallinity	sharp peaks	However , the low temperature synthesis leads to a compound with low crystallinity , without sharp peaks , that precludes the structure determination from powder diffraction data .
conductivities	porosities	The overall conductivities increase with x but it is hard to discuss this variation as the porosities and grain boundary contributions are different along the series .
conductivities	grain boundary	The overall conductivities increase with x but it is hard to discuss this variation as the porosities and grain boundary contributions are different along the series .
nic cell	hexagopal cell	nic cell , which corresponds to the reflections 600 , 900 , 0.0.18 , 0.0.3 in the hexagopal cell .
monoclinic crystals	unit cell	The monoclinic crystals in the temperature range before the first phase transformation in the space group Bb contain four molecules in the unit cell .
monoclinic crystals	temperature	The monoclinic crystals in the temperature range before the first phase transformation in the space group Bb contain four molecules in the unit cell .
phase transformation	space group Bb	The monoclinic crystals in the temperature range before the first phase transformation in the space group Bb contain four molecules in the unit cell .
monoclinic structure is converted into a trigonal structure	temperature range 40 - 60 <nUm>	The monoclinic structure is converted into a trigonal structure in the temperature range 40 - 60 <nUm> and the phase transformation is accompanied by a decrease in the volume .
phase transformation	volume	The monoclinic structure is converted into a trigonal structure in the temperature range 40 - 60 <nUm> and the phase transformation is accompanied by a decrease in the volume .
density	rhombohedra 1 phase	If , however , account is taken of the fact that the second value was obtained at a temperature of 205 <nUm> , whereas the transition takes place at 140 <nUm> the increase in the density of the rhombohedra 1 phase is obvious .
super ion state	channel structure	Moreover , it is surprising that these transformations ( in the compounds being considered ) lead to a super ion state , characterized by a channel structure .
bond distances	(Zr2Si3O12)-4 framework	Little change occurs in bond distances and angles in the (Zr2Si3O12)-4 framework whereas the Na(1)-O6 and Na(2)-O8 polyhedra enlarge dramatically with increase of temperature .
bond distances	Na(1)-O6	Little change occurs in bond distances and angles in the (Zr2Si3O12)-4 framework whereas the Na(1)-O6 and Na(2)-O8 polyhedra enlarge dramatically with increase of temperature .
angles	(Zr2Si3O12)-4 framework	Little change occurs in bond distances and angles in the (Zr2Si3O12)-4 framework whereas the Na(1)-O6 and Na(2)-O8 polyhedra enlarge dramatically with increase of temperature .
angles	Na(1)-O6	Little change occurs in bond distances and angles in the (Zr2Si3O12)-4 framework whereas the Na(1)-O6 and Na(2)-O8 polyhedra enlarge dramatically with increase of temperature .
silicon tetrahedron	silicate structures	The value for the silicon tetrahedron is similar to values found for other silicate structures ( 16-18 ) .
rhombohedra 1 symmetry	room temperature	Except for the one reported here all have rhombohedra 1 symmetry at room temperature .
NASICON	garnet structure	The structure of NASICON is related to the garnet structure ( 3 ) .
Coulomb	Na(1) ions	The Coulomb forces shift a part of Na(1) ions into mid-Na interstitial positions .
lattice symmetry	room temperature	A precise determination of the lattice symmetry was performed at room temperature on a four cycle diffractometer .
crystals	parallepiped shapes	The crystals obtained by this method exhibit parallepiped shapes and are again rather small , with dimensions less than 0.5 mm .
y crystals	Na(l) site	The occupation factors are 0.92 and 0.79 , respectively for the disordered and y crystals at room temperature , whereas in the ordered cc phase the Na(l) site was found completely filled .
occupation factors	y crystals	The occupation factors are 0.92 and 0.79 , respectively for the disordered and y crystals at room temperature , whereas in the ordered cc phase the Na(l) site was found completely filled .
Nasicon glasses	y phases	As might be expected , the consequence of loss of long range correlations in Nasicon glasses produces effects quite similar to those observed for the and y phases .
broadening	tetrahedra modes	broadening of tetrahedra modes , presence of low frequency background , etc .
ionic radii	Na	( 2.50A ) is larger than that obtained from the ionic radii sum of Na and O2 a higher degree of ionicity .
structural distortion	electrical conductivity	Correlations are found between the structural distortion and electrical conductivity of the phosphates , on one hand , and the alkali cation size , on the other .
electrical conductivity	phosphates	Correlations are found between the structural distortion and electrical conductivity of the phosphates , on one hand , and the alkali cation size , on the other .
structural distortion	alkali cation	Correlations are found between the structural distortion and electrical conductivity of the phosphates , on one hand , and the alkali cation size , on the other .
structural distortion	phosphates	Correlations are found between the structural distortion and electrical conductivity of the phosphates , on one hand , and the alkali cation size , on the other .
sol gel	NASICON synthesis	Different preparation techniques exist to reduce the size of crystallites ; among those hydrothermal , sol gel and co-precipitation are commonly used for NASICON synthesis .
hydrothermal	NASICON synthesis	Different preparation techniques exist to reduce the size of crystallites ; among those hydrothermal , sol gel and co-precipitation are commonly used for NASICON synthesis .
microprobe analysis	monophase arsenate phosphate	The results of microprobe analysis showed that monophase arsenate phosphate samples are uniform and consist of crystallites of size 1 to 20 m ; their composition corresponds to the theoretical one to within the inaccuracy of the method .
The deviations of the dependences of unit cell parameters from the Vegard's rule	flexibility of the structure framework	The deviations of the dependences of unit cell parameters from the Vegard rule are appar ently due to the flexibility of the structure framework and distortion of the anion packing of the solid solution as compared with the anion packing in the pure components .
distances	tetrahedral angles	This equalization of the distances is accompanied , however , by an increasing distortion of the tetrahedral angles , as shown for in table 7 .
spatial arrangement	cavities	The most significant consequence of the difference in the spatial arrangement of polyhedra is the number of cavities formed in the framework and their shape .
spatial arrangement	polyhedra	The most significant consequence of the difference in the spatial arrangement of polyhedra is the number of cavities formed in the framework and their shape .
metal ions	homogeneity	Both end of which can take part in complexation of metal ions of varying sizes , which helps in preventing selective precipitation to maintain compositional homogeneity among the constituents .
300 - 740	organic intermediates	The gravimetric plot shows significant weight loss in the temperature range of 300 - 740 for all samples due to decomposition of organic intermediates .
thermal stability	decomposition	This is a consequence of the thermal stability of the material as it can not be heated above 800 <nUm> without partial decomposition .
800 <nUm>	decomposition	This is a consequence of the thermal stability of the material as it can not be heated above 800 <nUm> without partial decomposition .
flow reactor volume	reaction time	The optimal continuous - flow reactor volume in this system associates with a reaction time that only slightly exceeds the time period required for the reaction to reach its initial rate .
Electrochemical intercalation	sodium content	Electrochemical intercalation or reaction with organometallic should allow the sodium content to be increased .
preheated	refractory crucible	The reaction mixtures thus prepared were preheated in a refractory crucible with a Bunsen flame , until the evolution of gases stopped , and then heated at 800 <nUm> for 16 h .
x-ray diffraction	reaction	After each calcination , the samples , ground to a fine powder , were studied by x-ray diffraction to check the progress of the reaction .
temperature	reflections	A further increase in temperature to 1000 C led to an increase in the intensity of reflections .
Rietveld plots	R-factors	The Rietveld plots represent a good structure fit between observed and calculated intensity with satisfactory R-factors .
lower temperatures	reflections	At lower temperatures several reflections were split .
X-ray diffraction patterns	phosphates	X-ray diffraction patterns of phosphates were recorded on a DRON - 3 diffractometer using 1.54178 at room temperature in the angle range from 11 to 50 .
broad absorption band between 3300 cm -1 and 3600 cm -1	O-H vibrations	But the rather broad absorption band between 3300 cm -1 and 3600 cm -1 is typical for O-H vibrations .
DRON-3M diffractometer	high - temperature attachment URVT - 1500	The behavior of phosphates upon heating was studied on a DRON-3M diffractometer ( CuK filtered radiation ) with a high - temperature attachment URVT - 1500 .
angles	bonds	The angles between the shortest bonds are larger than those between the longest bonds because of the O repulsion which is stronger .
angles	repulsion	The angles between the shortest bonds are larger than those between the longest bonds because of the O repulsion which is stronger .
NZP compounds	cation exchange	The characteristic feature of the NZP compounds is the geometric possibility of cation exchange between the extraframework positions .
ionic conductivity	Na vacancies	This ionic conductivity is quite substantial , and it is likely that the framework ionic conductivity can be enhanced considerably by the intentional introduction of Na vacancies , or by substitutions on the transition metal site .
ionic conductivity	increasing activation energy	The ionic conductivity decreases with increasing activation energy .
ionic conductivity	solid electrolyte	To compete with a liquid electrolyte , the ionic conductivity of a solid electrolyte should be about 10(-2) S cm(-1) at room temperature .
NASICON structured materials	ionic conductivity	NASICON structured materials are particularly attractive because they exhibit great structural stability , as well as fast ionic conductivity .
NASICON type materials	ionic conductivity	NASICON type materials are considered as a class of 3D framework compounds possessing a stable structure and high ionic conductivity , leading to their wide applications , including energy - storage , membranes , fuel cells and gas sensors .
NASICON type materials	gas sensors	NASICON type materials are considered as a class of 4D framework compounds possessing a stable structure and high ionic conductivity , leading to their wide applications , including energy - storage , membranes , fuel cells and gas sensors .
NASICON type materials	energy	NASICON type materials are considered as a class of 5D framework compounds possessing a stable structure and high ionic conductivity , leading to their wide applications , including energy - storage , membranes , fuel cells and gas sensors .
NASICON type materials	storage	NASICON type materials are considered as a class of 6D framework compounds possessing a stable structure and high ionic conductivity , leading to their wide applications , including energy - storage , membranes , fuel cells and gas sensors .
solid solutions	ionic conductivity	Outside ( 0 x 1.8 and 2.4 < x < 3 ) the solid solutions show rather poor ionic conductivity and have rhombohedral symmetry already at room temperature .
conductivity	pre-exponential factor	Although the conductivity increases with an increasing pre-exponential factor , there is a large scatter , particularly for those compositions with high ionic conductivity .
physicochemical properties	high ionic conductivity	This should apparently also be revealed in its physicochemical properties : high ionic conductivity , easy exchange of the conducting ions for other ions , etc .
electrical conductivity	temperature	The first observed phase transformation leads to an abrupt change in the electrical conductivity , whereas the second is marked by an in flection on the curve giving the temperature dependence of the electrical conductivity and by a decrease in its activation energy .
phase transformation	electrical conductivity	The first observed phase transformation leads to an abrupt change in the electrical conductivity , whereas the second is marked by an in flection on the curve giving the temperature dependence of the electrical conductivity and by a decrease in its activation energy .
temperature	electrical conductivity	In accordance with the nature of the temperature dependence of the electrical conductivity , the structural study was carried out at 27 65 , 97 , 147 , 197 , 247 , 297 , and 350 0 C using one single crystal ; the study at room temperature was carried out to identify these and previously studied crystals .
conductivity	alkali cation	The conductivity is due to the alkali cation mobility .
conductivity	least size and highest density of the crystallites	Improved conductivity is elucidated by least size and highest density of the crystallites , which in turn is decided by the flame temperature .
conductivity	fuel ratio	The present study shows that grain and total conductivity decreases with fuel ratio and is quite dependable on the material  density .
fuel rich molar ratio	crystallite size	Least conductivity of the fuel rich molar ratio is due to its low density and large crystallite size .
x > 0.5	Na vacancies	For x > 0.5 , the conductivity drops in correlation with the decreasing amount of Na vacancies as well as the structural parameters as described hereafter .
conductivity	Na vacancies	For x > 0.5 , the conductivity drops in correlation with the decreasing amount of Na vacancies as well as the structural parameters as described hereafter .
Na concentrations	Na vacancies	For higher Na concentrations , the conductivity decreases due to the decreasing amount of Na vacancies .
activation energies	temperature	The activation energies at high temperature are lower than the data of the total conductivity at low temperature and higher than the data from bulk conductivity .
activation energy	higher temperatures	It can be expected that the activation energy of the bulk conductivity and of the total conductivity match at even higher temperatures .
phosphates	catalytic activity	These phosphates have been widely studied in many fields , because of their various properties such as conductivity , low expansion coefficients and catalytic activity .
phosphates	conductivity	These phosphates have been widely studied in many fields , because of their various properties such as conductivity , low expansion coefficients and catalytic activity .
structural parameters	conductivity	The influence of structural parameters on conductivity values has been analyzed with the bond valence sum method .
structural parameters	bond valence sum method	The influence of structural parameters on conductivity values has been analyzed with the bond valence sum method .
NASICON materials	conductivity	NASICON materials have been extensively studied because of the high conductivity shown by some compositions .
logarithm	conductivity	The logarithm of the conductivity changed linearly versus 1 / T over a wide range of temperatures .
conductivity	sodium interactions	Moreover , structural results clearly suggest that the enhanced conductivity at x = 2 arises from sodium interactions instead of geometry changes of the framework .
conductivity	geometry changes	Moreover , structural results clearly suggest that the enhanced conductivity at x = 2 arises from sodium interactions instead of geometry changes of the framework .
conductivity	x = 2	Moreover , structural results clearly suggest that the enhanced conductivity at x = 2 arises from sodium interactions instead of geometry changes of the framework .
conductivity	structural changes	In his fundamental paper , Hong ( 1 ) has shown that the variations in conductivity with composition were closely coupled with structural changes :
conductivity	x = 2	However , the conductivity increases with x to a maximum at x = 2 .
conductivity	distances	The absence of any other structural manifestations of the observed phase transformation lead to the conclusion that the change in the conductivity is due entirely to the change in the above distances .
phase transformation	conductivity	The absence of any other structural manifestations of the observed phase transformation lead to the conclusion that the change in the conductivity is due entirely to the change in the above distances .
conductivity	Si content	However , for the rhombohedral members of this series , the conductivity remained constant with increase in Si content as did the activation energy .
Si content	activation energy	However , for the rhombohedral members of this series , the conductivity remained constant with increase in Si content as did the activation energy .
unit cell parameters	arsenate phosphates	The dependences of the unit cell parameters and of arsenate phosphates on the composition are described by parabolic equations : a = 0.0055 x 2 + 0.1079x + 8.7941 , c = - 0.0264 x 2 +0.1742x + 22.842 , V = 0.5586 x 2 + 49.293x + 1530 .
unit cell parameters	temperatures	The unit cell parameters at four temperatures ( Table I ) were determined from the position of 18 reflections between 39 <nUm> and 43 <nUm> 29 .
unit cell parameters	position of 18 reflections	The unit cell parameters at four temperatures ( Table I ) were determined from the position of 18 reflections between 39 <nUm> and 43 <nUm> 29 .
position of 18 reflections	39 <nUm>	The unit cell parameters at four temperatures ( Table I ) were determined from the position of 18 reflections between 39 <nUm> and 43 <nUm> 29 .
position of 18 reflections	43 <nUm>	The unit cell parameters at four temperatures ( Table I ) were determined from the position of 18 reflections between 39 <nUm> and 43 <nUm> 29 .
resistance heater	unit cell parameters	A resistance heater of the type designed by Ohashi was employed to determine unit cell parameters and x-ray intensity data on a four circle diffractometer .
resistance heater	diffractometer	A resistance heater of the type designed by Ohashi was employed to determine unit cell parameters and x-ray intensity data on a four circle diffractometer .
unit cell parameters	25 reflections	The unit cell parameters were obtained by least squares refinement of 25 reflections with 26 ranging from 16 to 290 .
least squares refinement	25 reflections	The unit cell parameters were obtained by least squares refinement of 25 reflections with 26 ranging from 16 to 290 .
temperature	unit cell parameters	Figure 1 also gives the temperature dependence of the unit cell parameters .
unit cell parameters	silicon content	In this series the unit cell parameters increased linearly as the silicon content increased ( Fig.l ) .
NZP	resistant to radiation damage	Cursory studies indicate that the NZP waste forms are highly resistant to radiation damage .
kosnarite ceramics	radiation damage	The kosnarite ceramics show high stability to the aggressive media action , radiation damage and thermal - shock resistance .
kosnarite ceramics	aggressive media action	The kosnarite ceramics show high stability to the aggressive media action , radiation damage and thermal - shock resistance .
NZP compounds	low leach rate	As crystalline waste forms , NZP compounds offer inherently low leach rate for single phases , negligible thermal expansion , and ability to immobilize high concentration of waste in high density phases .
low leach rate	single phases	As crystalline waste forms , NZP compounds offer inherently low leach rate for single phases , negligible thermal expansion , and ability to immobilize high concentration of waste in high density phases .
immobilize high concentration	high density	As crystalline waste forms , NZP compounds offer inherently low leach rate for single phases , negligible thermal expansion , and ability to immobilize high concentration of waste in high density phases .
thermal expansion	high temperature	Recently , Oota and Yamai15 have studied the thermal expansion of NZP compounds at high temperature using powdered or sintered samples of the material .
thermal expansion	NZP compounds	Recently , Oota and Yamai15 have studied the thermal expansion of NZP compounds at high temperature using powdered or sintered samples of the material .
thermal expansion materials	compressibility	Most low thermal expansion materials are also characterized by unusually low compressibility ; the same rigid structural elements that restrict expansion in zircon and silica glass , for example , also restrict com - pression .
NZP family	solid electrolytes	It is of interest to use representatives of the NZP family as solid electrolytes , ceramics with low thermal expansion , materials for incorporating radioactive wastes , catalysts , and biomaterials compatible with bone tis sue .
ceramics	thermal expansion	It is of interest to use representatives of the NZP family as solid electrolytes , ceramics with low thermal expansion , materials for incorporating radioactive wastes , catalysts , and biomaterials compatible with bone tis sue .
thermal expansion	NZP compounds	Recently , Oota and Yamai have studied the thermal expansion of NZP compounds at high temperature using powdered or sintered samples
thermal expansion	high temperature	Recently , Oota and Yamai have studied the thermal expansion of NZP compounds at high temperature using powdered or sintered samples
NZP compounds	powdered or sintered samples	Recently , Oota and Yamai have studied the thermal expansion of NZP compounds at high temperature using powdered or sintered samples
principal tensions	thermal expansion	This constrictions go along the principal tensions or driving forces responsible for the thermal expansion .
thermal stresses	thermal expansion	It is shown that thermal stresses affect the thermal expansion , but they relax after some time of storage .
powder patterns	phase transition	The powder patterns showed no phase transition and only the peaks displacement due to the thermal expansion was observed .
peaks displacement	thermal expansion	The powder patterns showed no phase transition and only the peaks displacement due to the thermal expansion was observed .
Powder diffraction	Rietveld refinement	Powder diffraction data have been subjected to Rietveld refinement to arrive at a satisfactory structural convergence of R-factors .
bond distances	powder data	Table 4 lists the bond distances calculated from powder data based on this proposed structure .
PO4	stretching	The PO4 stretching and bending vibrations in the infrared region have been assigned .
stretching and bending vibrations	infrared region	The PO4 stretching and bending vibrations in the infrared region have been assigned .
the optimisation of reaction parameters	transfer	Commonly , the optimisation of reaction parameters is performed by sequential unit operations , such as transfer of liquids , quenching of the reaction and storage of the samples prior to analysis .
catalyst performance	peak area	Therefore , the catalyst performance is assessed by determining the peak area from the selected ion monitoring ( SIM ) product trace in atmospheric pressure chemical ionisation ( APCI ) MS detection .
Na(1)-O(1) distance	temperature	The mean Na(1)-O(1) distance changes dramatically with temperature ( 2.484 , 2.54 , and 2.576 A , respectively , at RT , 300 , and 620 <nUm> ) .
anisotropic displacement parameters	sodium mobility	The enhanced anisotropic displacement parameters ( U11 = U22 = 0.0381(13) A ) are indicative of sodium mobility as frequently observed in NASICON materials [ 8 , and refs. therein ] .
distance	lowest activation energy	Therefore only a tentative optimal distance at about 3.42 - 3.43 leading to the lowest activation energy can be deduced .
fuel molar ratio	combustion	The nature of ignition depends on fuel molar ratio and combustion was more powerful for large molar ratios .
crystallite size	adiabatic flame temperature	The crystallite size is decided mainly by two factors i.e. adiabatic flame temperature and number of moles of gases released during combustion . The flame temperature and the number of moles of gases released are more for large fuel ratio .
flame temperature	fuel ratio	The crystallite size is decided mainly by two factors i.e. adiabatic flame temperature and number of moles of gases released during combustion . The flame temperature and the number of moles of gases released are more for large fuel ratio .
lattice parameters	fuel ratio	It is observed that the lattice parameters and crystallite size are reliable on fuel ratio .
agglomeration	flame temperature	As the fuel ratio increases , agglomeration increases due to hike in the flame temperature .
fuel ratio	agglomeration	As the fuel ratio increases , agglomeration increases due to hike in the flame temperature .
Metal nitrates	glycine	Metal nitrates are reduced by glycine through an exothermic redox reaction during combustion and the adiabatic flame temperature reach above 1000 <nUm> depending on the fuel ratio .
Metal nitrates	exothermic redox reaction	Metal nitrates are reduced by glycine through an exothermic redox reaction during combustion and the adiabatic flame temperature reach above 1000 <nUm> depending on the fuel ratio .
High ionic conductivity	NASICON	High ionic conductivity and stability of phosphate units are advantages of NASICON over other electrolyte materials .
Silver paint	electrical contact	Silver paint was evenly applied on both sides of pellets for better electrical contact .
capacitance	grain boundary impedance	The shoulder in the overall Z plot with an associated capacitance of 33 pF , is very likely due to a grain boundary impedance .
Glycine	zwitterion	Glycine plays dual role in combustion reaction ; being a carboxylic group at one end and an amino group at other end , it can behave as zwitterion .
agglomeration	density	The agglomeration decreases density owing to less packing of larger crystallites , which affects the electrical properties adversely .
agglomeration	crystallites	The agglomeration decreases density owing to less packing of larger crystallites , which affects the electrical properties adversely .
glycine fuel molar ratio	physical and ac electrical properties	The effect of glycine fuel molar ratio on physical and ac electrical properties of the material are investigated .
fuel molar ratio	physical and electrical properties	This study concludes that , the fuel molar ratio play a major role in deciding physical and electrical properties and 1 : 1 is the optimized ratio in this study .
activation energy	lattice parameters	Correlations between the activation energy and the lattice parameters for the experimentally produced data revealed the existence of optimal lattice parameters .
lattice parameters	ratio of the chemical species	value because the lattice parameters changed continuously with the ratio of the chemical species .
lattice parameters	indexing method	Figure 1 shows the variation of these lattice parameters , obtained by indexing method , with composition .
Rietveld method	x-ray diffraction profile	The lattice parameters refined by Rietveld method , that is deconvoluting the x-ray diffraction profile , match very well those calculated by indexing method which implies least squares fitting from the peak positions .
x-ray diffraction profile	indexing method	The lattice parameters refined by Rietveld method , that is deconvoluting the x-ray diffraction profile , match very well those calculated by indexing method which implies least squares fitting from the peak positions .
gas sensors	high ion conductivity	These materials could find possible application in gas sensors due to its thermal stability and high ion conductivity .
thermal stability	cathode materials	The thermal stability of cathode materials has been shown to be a good predictor of stability against overcharge .
thermal stability	stability against overcharge	The thermal stability of cathode materials has been shown to be a good predictor of stability against overcharge .
endotherms	phase transition	Hence , the observed endotherms are probably not due to a phase transition .
activation energies	NASICON	The potential barrier calculated from the PDF has about the same value as the activation energies measured on NASICON ceramics above the phase transition .
LCR meter	HP4284A	Complex impedance was measured using an LCR meter ( HP4284A ) in a frequency range from 20 Hz to 1 MHz , at temperatures from about 200 to 800 <nUm> .
heating	homogenization	The step wise heating of the samples was alternated with disper sion for maintenance of sample homogenization .
annealing temperature	900 <nUm>	The increase in the annealing temperature to 900 <nUm> resulted in their higher crystallinity .
X-ray diffraction patterns	smooth displacement	The X-ray diffraction patterns of arsenate phos phates show a smooth displacement of the diffraction maxima with gradual change in their relative intensities upon increase in .
smooth displacement	relative intensities	The X-ray diffraction patterns of arsenate phos phates show a smooth displacement of the diffraction maxima with gradual change in their relative intensities upon increase in .
thermal expansion coefficients	expansion compounds	The average linear thermal expansion coefficients , respectively ) indicate that these salts are medium expansion compounds .
contact surface	reaction rate	As a result , the contact surface between the reacting particles in the solid reaction mixtures increases and the reaction rate grows .
metal oxide additives	lowmelting compounds	In the case of NZP compounds , the metal oxide additives forming lowmelting compounds ensure the active shrinkage of the pressed powders on heating and the formation of samples with nearly theoretical density .
solid state reaction	additives	The solid state reaction can be initiated by trace additives able to change the concentrations of point and extended defects and thus affect the diffusion processes and reactions at interfaces .
cooling	vitrification	Subsequent cooling to 770 <nUm> at a rate of 25 <nUm> leads to melt vitrification , without for mation of crystalline phases .
cooling	25 <nUm>	Subsequent cooling to 770 <nUm> at a rate of 25 <nUm> leads to melt vitrification , without for mation of crystalline phases .
anisotropic thermal expansion	X-ray diffraction	Its anisotropic thermal expansion , has been calculated from high temperature X-ray diffraction , and it is linear in the range from room temperature up to 800 <nUm> .
anisotropic thermal expansion	powder thermodiffractometry	They display low anisotropic thermal expansion that was measured by powder thermodiffractometry .
lattice constants	four angular positions	The lattice constants were derived from four angular positions of 25 reflections .
activation energy	x = 0.3	The activation energy decreases with increasing x up to x = 0.3 .
polarization	activation energy	If the oxygen atoms bond to only two network cations , polarization of the 2 ion charge density away from the alkali ions is reduced , thus increasing the activation energy for ion transport according to our hypothesis .
temperature	activation energy	The possible relationship between the observed temperature structural deformations and the change in the activation energy in the second phase transformation in the range 130 - 180 <nUm> has been discussed .
phase transformation	130 - 180 <nUm>	The possible relationship between the observed temperature structural deformations and the change in the activation energy in the second phase transformation in the range 130 - 180 <nUm> has been discussed .
least squares procedure	powder diffraction profile	The method requires an starting model , as it follows a non-linear least squares procedure to deconvolute the powder diffraction profile , but more implementations allow the use of direct methods as well ( 14,15 ) , and the study of microstrains and particle size of ceramic materials .
solid state reactions	electrochemical performance	The particle size of materials prepared by solid state reactions is relatively large , resulting in poor electrochemical performance , especially low rate capability .
nitride and oxynitride systems	oxygen attack	Although nitride and oxynitride systems can be susceptible to decomposition by oxygen attack , some systems like GaN or SIALONs have very good temperature stability to ~ 900 <nUm> .
GaN	temperature stability	Although nitride and oxynitride systems can be susceptible to decomposition by oxygen attack , some systems like GaN or SIALONs have very good temperature stability to ~ 900 <nUm> .
higher sodium concentrations	higher conductivity	With higher sodium concentrations this scatter is reduced and a clear trend is visible towards higher conductivity .
porosity	masses	The porosity of the pellets , determined from the masses and geometry , ranges between 25 and 10 % .
compression	bond angle	In case of framework compounds , compression principally leads to increased variation of bond angle which enhances bending flexibility of Zr-O-P moiety with only minor contribution from compression of the stiff polyhedral bonds .
bond angle	bending flexibility	In case of framework compounds , compression principally leads to increased variation of bond angle which enhances bending flexibility of Zr-O-P moiety with only minor contribution from compression of the stiff polyhedral bonds .
bond angle	ceramic - type materials	Ha - zen and Finger17 described bond compression and bond angle bending as two important compression mechanisms in ceramic - type materials .
bond angle	compression mechanisms	Ha - zen and Finger17 described bond compression and bond angle bending as two important compression mechanisms in ceramic - type materials .
compressibility	bond compression	The increase in compressibility in NZP compounds can be explained as due to the cooperative interaction of bond compression and bond angle bending mechanism .
redox potentials	elemental composition	The redox potentials of NASICON structured materials can be tuned by changing the elemental composition and / or the valence states of the transition metal ions .
sodium ion batteries	low cost	The development of aqueous symmetric sodium ion batteries with a low cost , long cycle life , high safety , high efficiency , and an environmentally - benign nature may pave the way for large - scale stationary energy storage applications and will provide new opportunities towards the advancement of room temperature sodium ion batteries .
sodium ion batteries	long cycle life	The development of aqueous symmetric sodium ion batteries with a low cost , long cycle life , high safety , high efficiency , and an environmentally - benign nature may pave the way for large - scale stationary energy storage applications and will provide new opportunities towards the advancement of room temperature sodium ion batteries .
sodium ion batteries	high safety	The development of aqueous symmetric sodium ion batteries with a low cost , long cycle life , high safety , high efficiency , and an environmentally - benign nature may pave the way for large - scale stationary energy storage applications and will provide new opportunities towards the advancement of room temperature sodium ion batteries .
temperature	bulk resistance	Depending on the temperature , at least two components can be distinguished from the impedance spectra : the bulk resistance at the high frequency intercept and the grain boundary resistance in the broad arc .
bulk conductivity	x	However , the Arrhenius lines from the M data fall on a set of spaced parallel lines , Fig. 7 , showing a clear trend of increasing bulk conductivity with x .
NASICON family	compositional diversity	The materials belonging to the NASICON family are very attractive because of their compositional diversity leading to many possible applications .
conductivities	cracks	The varying conductivities are also related to the already mentioned cracks as it is difficult to prevent their appearance even with slow cooling rates after the sintering of the samples and with a controlled grain growth .
cracks	cooling rates	The varying conductivities are also related to the already mentioned cracks as it is difficult to prevent their appearance even with slow cooling rates after the sintering of the samples and with a controlled grain growth .
cracks	sintering	The varying conductivities are also related to the already mentioned cracks as it is difficult to prevent their appearance even with slow cooling rates after the sintering of the samples and with a controlled grain growth .
conductivities	200 <nUm>	The overall conductivities are near to 10(-5) S cm-1 at 200 <nUm> .
conductivities	10(-5) S cm-1	The overall conductivities are near to 10(-5) S cm-1 at 200 <nUm> .
distances	positions	Obviously , these short distances forbid simultaneous occupation of these two positions .
The errors in the determination of the distances	0.007 A	The errors in the determination of the distances do not exceed 0.007 A .
200 <nUm> and 400 <nUm>	the contribution of the grain boundary conductivity is decreasing	This indicates that between 200 <nUm> and 400 <nUm> the contribution of the grain boundary conductivity is decreasing but not completely negligible .
NASICON	623 K	For instance , the R factor decreases from 3.6 to 2.9 % for the x = 2.05 NASICON at 623 K .
R factor	NASICON	For instance , the R factor decreases from 3.6 to 2.9 % for the x = 2.05 NASICON at 623 K .
x = 2.05	NASICON	For instance , the R factor decreases from 3.6 to 2.9 % for the x = 2.05 NASICON at 623 K .
NVP	operation potential	NVP is an important cathode material for NIBs , which shows a high operation potential , excellent cycling life , and ultrahigh rate performance .
NVP	rate performance	NVP is an important cathode material for NIBs , which shows a high operation potential , excellent cycling life , and ultrahigh rate performance .
NVP	cathode material	NVP is an important cathode material for NIBs , which shows a high operation potential , excellent cycling life , and ultrahigh rate performance .
NVP	NIBs	NVP is an important cathode material for NIBs , which shows a high operation potential , excellent cycling life , and ultrahigh rate performance .
NASICON structured materials	operation potential	NASICON structured materials are suitable for both the cathode and the anode , where the operation potential can be easily tuned by the choice of transition metal and / or polyanion group in the structure .
NASICON structured materials	transition metal	NASICON structured materials are suitable for both the cathode and the anode , where the operation potential can be easily tuned by the choice of transition metal and / or polyanion group in the structure .
NASICON structured materials	cathode	NASICON structured materials are suitable for both the cathode and the anode , where the operation potential can be easily tuned by the choice of transition metal and / or polyanion group in the structure .
m-LVP	cathode	Kobayashi et al. fabricated a symmetric solid - state battery with m-LVP as both cathode and anode , which delivered capacities of 92 mA h g(-1) at 80 <nUm> and 38 mA h g at 25 <nUm> at 22 A cm .
symmetric solid - state battery	m-LVP	Kobayashi et al. fabricated a symmetric solid - state battery with m-LVP as both cathode and anode , which delivered capacities of 92 mA h g(-1) at 80 <nUm> and 38 mA h g at 25 <nUm> at 22 A cm .
residual electron density	R value	A significant decrease of the residual electron density and an improvement of the R value ( RW = 0.015 ) occured .
443 K	a	Figure 4 shows the composition dependence at 443 K of the a and c parameters .
a	c	Figure 4 shows the composition dependence at 443 K of the a and c parameters .
Rough cell parameters	indexed peaks	Rough cell parameters were calculated based on the indexed peaks ( 10 to 60 <nUm> 2 values ) .
indexed peaks	10 to 60 <nUm> 2 values	Rough cell parameters were calculated based on the indexed peaks ( 10 to 60 <nUm> 2 values ) .
peaks	least squares fitting	Then , accurate cell parameters were calculated on all the peaks by least squares fitting .
cell parameters	peaks	Then , accurate cell parameters were calculated on all the peaks by least squares fitting .
cell parameters	Rietveld refinement	The cell parameters were obtained by Rietveld refinement of the variable patterns .
atom parameters	full matrix	The atom parameters , scale factors , and anisotropic temperature factors were then refined with a full matrix , least squares program to give K = 0.43 and K w = 0.6 for all reflections .
scale factors	full matrix	The atom parameters , scale factors , and anisotropic temperature factors were then refined with a full matrix , least squares program to give K = 0.43 and K w = 0.6 for all reflections .
atom parameters	least squares program	The atom parameters , scale factors , and anisotropic temperature factors were then refined with a full matrix , least squares program to give K = 0.43 and K w = 0.6 for all reflections .
scale factors	least squares program	The atom parameters , scale factors , and anisotropic temperature factors were then refined with a full matrix , least squares program to give K = 0.43 and K w = 0.6 for all reflections .
the anions bond to four or more network cations	the network is close packed	If the anions bond to four or more network cations , the network is close packed and there is no passageway for interstitial alkali ions .
the network is close packed	interstitial alkali ions	If the anions bond to four or more network cations , the network is close packed and there is no passageway for interstitial alkali ions .
The refinement of the split sites	scattering factor	The refinement of the split sites was carried out using the scattering factor of and isotropic temperature factors .
Refinement	convergence with isotropic temperature factors	Refinement proceeded smoothly to convergence with isotropic temperature factors .
Lattice thermal expansion	ceramics with adjustable and very low thermal expansion	Lattice thermal expansion studies on a lot of compounds has already carried out in this family because of their application to ceramics with adjustable and very low thermal expansion .
Unit cell parameters	linear thermal expansion	Unit cell parameters at four temperatures ( TableI ) are in close agreement with the linear thermal expansion and temperature volume data of Oota and Yamai .
lattice parameter c	Sn content	The lattice parameter c increases as the Sn content increases in the whole range of composition .
lattice parameter c	Sn(IV) content	This change does n't take place in the lattice parameter c ingreasing its value as the Sn(IV) content increases in the two parts of the series .
an elongation in one direction	compression in the perpendicular direction	Therefore , an elongation in one direction induces compression in the perpendicular direction .
temperature	P-O distance	In contrast , the Zr-O distance does not change with temperature , and the P-O distance appears to decrease from 1.525 to 1.519 A over this temperature range .
temperature	P-O distance	with temperature , and the P-O distance appears to decrease from 1.525 to 1.519 A over this temperature range .
Ti-C bonds bend	P-O bonds	In particular , the expression relating the octahedra and tetrahedra distortions is shown from this work to be chemically reasonably , i e. that the Ti-C bonds bend about 10 times more than the P-O bonds , in conformity with the different steric restrictions .
NZP type compounds	compressibilities	The NZP type compounds have the potential for cooperative interaction of these two mechanisms , which could lead to large compressibilities ( > 10 ~ 4 kbar ) .
the use of molten salts ( or flux growth )	dissolve reactants	The most common techniques are hydrothermal synthesis and chemical vapour transport or the use of molten salts ( or flux growth ) to dissolve reactants at relatively low temperature .
hydrothermal synthesis	dissolve reactants	The most common techniques are hydrothermal synthesis and chemical vapour transport or the use of molten salts ( or flux growth ) to dissolve reactants at relatively low temperature .
corresponding temperature dependence	typical Curie	The corresponding temperature dependence of the reciprocal susceptibility X(-1) follows a typical Curie
corresponding temperature dependence	reciprocal susceptibility X(-1)	The corresponding temperature dependence of the reciprocal susceptibility X(-1) follows a typical Curie
A canted AFM	compound ( II ) below 46 K	A canted AFM state is proposed for compound ( II ) below 46 K with a field - induced magnetic transition at H O 19 kOe , revealed in the hysteresis loop measured at 5K .
covalent character	Ni-O bonds	Optical study shows a covalent character of Ni-O bonds .
All used chemicals	purity	All used chemicals were provided by REACHEM , their purity was not less than 99.5 % .
purity	not less than 99.5 %	All used chemicals were provided by REACHEM , their purity was not less than 99.5 % .
The uncertainty of the chemical composition determination	within 2.5 % mass	The uncertainty of the chemical composition determination was within 2.5 % mass .
barrier height	effective one particle potential	In this case the barrier height of the effective one particle potential derived from this function should agree with the activation enthalpy measured with the impedance technique .
barrier height	this function	In this case the barrier height of the effective one particle potential derived from this function should agree with the activation enthalpy measured with the impedance technique .
barrier height	activation enthalpy	In this case the barrier height of the effective one particle potential derived from this function should agree with the activation enthalpy measured with the impedance technique .
activation enthalpy	single crystals	This value is in noticeable good agreement with the activation enthalpy found with acconductivity measurements on single crystals of the same charge ( see the following paper ) .
activation enthalpy	acconductivity measurements	This value is in noticeable good agreement with the activation enthalpy found with acconductivity measurements on single crystals of the same charge ( see the following paper ) .
activation enthalpy	single crystals	The height of the effective one particle potential barrier agrees quite well with the activation enthalpy measured on single crystals with impedance methods ( part Ill ) .
activation enthalpy	impedance methods	The height of the effective one particle potential barrier agrees quite well with the activation enthalpy measured on single crystals with impedance methods ( part Ill ) .
The height of the effective one particle potential barrier	activation enthalpy	The height of the effective one particle potential barrier agrees quite well with the activation enthalpy measured on single crystals with impedance methods ( part Ill ) .
Si concentration	NASICON crystals	ICP ( Inductive Coupled Plasma ) and microprobe chemical analyses were carried out to check the Si concentration in these NASICON crystals .
ICP	Si concentration	ICP ( Inductive Coupled Plasma ) and microprobe chemical analyses were carried out to check the Si concentration in these NASICON crystals .
microprobe chemical analyses	Si concentration	ICP ( Inductive Coupled Plasma ) and microprobe chemical analyses were carried out to check the Si concentration in these NASICON crystals .
crystalline solutions	anisotropy	Since all members ofthe family should , in principle , form crystalline solutions , a wide range of anisotropy and a nearzero thermal expansion composition should be possible .
Intensities	diffractometer	Intensities were collected on an automated , four circle diffractometer with Nb filtered MoKa radiation { X = 0.7093 A ) .
orientation	thermal vibration ellipsoids	Refined anisotropic temperature parameters and the magnitudes and orientation of thermal vibration ellipsoids at room conditions appear in Table II .
Electric conductivity	sintered pellet samples	Electric conductivity was measured on the sintered pellet samples using evaporated gold electrodes .
Electric conductivity	evaporated gold electrodes	Electric conductivity was measured on the sintered pellet samples using evaporated gold electrodes .
electric conductivity	sintered samples	Figure 2 Arrhenius plots of the electric conductivity of the sintered samples determined by the complex impedance method .
electric conductivity	complex impedance method	Figure 2 Arrhenius plots of the electric conductivity of the sintered samples determined by the complex impedance method .
Arrhenius plots	electric conductivity	Figure 2 Arrhenius plots of the electric conductivity of the sintered samples determined by the complex impedance method .
polycrystalline samples with compositions 1.8 < x < 2.4	low resistivity	In contrast , polycrystalline samples with compositions 1.8 < x < 2.4 exhibit a low resistivity which is minimum for x = 2 ( about 3 0 cm at -3000c ) .
minimum	x = 2	In contrast , polycrystalline samples with compositions 1.8 < x < 2.4 exhibit a low resistivity which is minimum for x = 2 ( about 3 0 cm at -3000c ) .
composition dependence	mid-Na occupation factor	The composition dependence of the mid-Na occupation factor , maximum at x = 2 , explains the maximum of the c hexagonal parameter and of the Na(I) oxygen average distance observed at about x = 2 .
composition dependence	maximum of the c hexagonal parameter	The composition dependence of the mid-Na occupation factor , maximum at x = 2 , explains the maximum of the c hexagonal parameter and of the Na(I) oxygen average distance observed at about x = 2 .
the average length of the Na(1) oxygen bond	the minimum value of Na(1) occupation factor	The maximum of the average length of the Na(1) oxygen bond and the maximum of the c hexagonal parameter , observed at about x = 2 , are clearly associated with the minimum value of Na(1) occupation factor .
the average length of the Na(1) oxygen bond	x = 2	The maximum of the average length of the Na(1) oxygen bond and the maximum of the c hexagonal parameter , observed at about x = 2 , are clearly associated with the minimum value of Na(1) occupation factor .
the average length of the Na(1) oxygen bond	the minimum value of Na(1) occupation factor	The maximum of the average length of the Na(1) oxygen bond and the maximum of the c hexagonal parameter , observed at about x = 2 , are clearly associated with the minimum value of Na(1) occupation factor .
the average length of the Na(1) oxygen bond	x = 2	The maximum of the average length of the Na(1) oxygen bond and the maximum of the c hexagonal parameter , observed at about x = 2 , are clearly associated with the minimum value of Na(1) occupation factor .
interionic repulsions	temperature	These results are compatible with the expected decrease of the interionic repulsions when the temperature is raised .
NASICON	x = 2.05	Anisotropic temperature factor coefficients deduced from the refinements for NASICON x = 2.05 single crystals at 443 and 623 K are given in Table V .
Anisotropic temperature factor coefficients	NASICON x = 2.05 single crystals	Anisotropic temperature factor coefficients deduced from the refinements for NASICON x = 2.05 single crystals at 443 and 623 K are given in Table V .
linear expansion coefficients	neutron Rietveld analysis	All of the linear expansion coefficients determined near x = 2 are also in agreement with data obtained by neutron Rietveld analysis at 300 and 593 K for x = 1.6 and x = 2 by Didisheim et al. .
Na(1)-O(2) distances	temperature	But , the Na(1)-O(2) distances highly increase with increasing temperature and , at 623 K 2.05 , become very close to the Na(2) - oxygen lengths .
Na(1)-O(2) distances highly increase	623 K 2.05	But , the Na(1)-O(2) distances highly increase with increasing temperature and , at 623 K 2.05 , become very close to the Na(2) - oxygen lengths .
Na(1)-O(2) distances highly increase	close to the Na(2) - oxygen lengths	But , the Na(1)-O(2) distances highly increase with increasing temperature and , at 623 K 2.05 , become very close to the Na(2) - oxygen lengths .
average interionic distances	refinement	Table Ill summarizes average interionic distances , deduced from the refinement , for different x values and Table IV shows significant interionic distances for NASICON x = 2.05 at 443 and 623 K .
interionic distances	NASICON	Table Ill summarizes average interionic distances , deduced from the refinement , for different x values and Table IV shows significant interionic distances for NASICON x = 2.05 at 443 and 623 K .
Na(2')-O(1') bond distances	Na(2)-O distance	The Na(2')-O(1') bond distances show no temperature correlations and fall within 3 esd of the average Na(2)-O distance for all the refinements .
this interaction	Na(2')-O distances	As shown in table 7 , if this interaction is neglected , the Na(2')-O distances appear far more regular .
Neutron diffraction	D2B instrument	Neutron diffraction has been carried out using the D2B instrument at the Institute Laue Langevin ( 8 ) .
Rietveld program	eccentricity	The original Rietveld program had to be modified in order to handle the eccentricity of the sample .
coefficient relating	eccentricity	The Rietveld computer program was modified to include and refine a coefficient relating to the eccentricity of the sample in the X-ray nigh temperature camera .
The Rietveld computer program	coefficient relating	The Rietveld computer program was modified to include and refine a coefficient relating to the eccentricity of the sample in the X-ray nigh temperature camera .
lattice thermal expansion	high temperature diffractograms taken on a HT Parr camera	The lattice thermal expansion was determined from the high temperature diffractograms taken on a HT Parr camera , by indexing and fitting the peaks between 100 <nUm> and 1 60 <nUm> , by least squares .
redox reaction	titanium selenide host material	Contrary to the isotypic TIxV6S8 , the redox reaction also attacks the titanium selenide host material as seen in SEM micrographs .
Samples with x < 0.8	metastable	Samples with x < 0.8 are metastable and are only obtained by a topotactically redox reaction .
topotactic deintercalation	redox reaction	Further investigations gave evidence that the topotactic deintercalation is better described by a combination of a redox reaction and a deintercalation .
redox agent	host material	Samples with x < 0.2 could not be obtained due to a strong reaction between the redox agent and the host material .
high reactivity	microinhomogeneities	The high reactivity is attributed to extensive microinhomogeneities which was manifested by SEM and EDA investigations .
chemical reactivity	SEM and EDA	In addition , the chemical reactivity and the micro homogeneity as well as the morphology of this ternary compound were investigated with SEM and EDA .
micro homogeneity	SEM and EDA	In addition , the chemical reactivity and the micro homogeneity as well as the morphology of this ternary compound were investigated with SEM and EDA .
ratio	temperature	Furthermore , the ratio increases with decreasing temperature .
pronounced anisotropy	100 K	This results in a less pronounced anisotropy at 100 K ( see Table 2 ) .
hexagonal lattice parameters	least squares fitting	It was indexed as rhombohedral and the hexagonal lattice parameters calculated by least squares fitting .
structure refinements	R values	The final structure refinements resulted in the weighted R values of Rw = 0.02 ( RT ) and Rw = 0.018 ( T = 403K ) .
grains	anisotropic tensions	In which , grains are under anisotropic tensions .
volume expansion	anisotropic	The volume expansion is very anisotropic with an average value of 3.7 x 10 -6 <nUm> -1 .
Na-O bonds	greatest expansion	From data in Table 3 , it is apparent that the Na-O bonds are those with the greatest expansion , i.e. , from 2.472 , at 25 <nUm> to 2.566 at 800 <nUm> .
angles O1-Ti-O1	temperature	In general , the angles O1-Ti-O1 decrease when the temperature increases , while the angles O2-Ti-O2 increase when the temperature increases ( Table3 ) .
angle O2-P-O2	temperature	The angle O2-P-O2 closes from 111.9 <nUm> to 110.2 <nUm> when the temperature increases .
the deflection at 200 <nUm>	microstructural stresses	So , it appears that the deflection at 200 <nUm> ( 2 ) was due to microstructural stresses and also , that they relax after some years of storage .
angle O1	temperature	The angle O1 increases with the temperature from 7.5 <nUm> up to 9.3 <nUm> , whereas 2 keeps practically constant at 8 <nUm> .
Al content	NASICON materials	The aim of this work is to establish the synthetic conditions to enhance the Al content of NASICON materials .
Conductivities	a.c. impedance measurements	Conductivities were determined , by a.c. impedance measurements from 20 Hz to 1 MHz using a Hewlett Packard 4284 impedance analysis , at 15 <nUm> intervals on a heating from 233 to 473 K .
thermal behaviour	poor sintered ionic conductors	This thermal behaviour is typical of poor sintered ionic conductors .
Rietveld refinements	anisotropic contraction	On the basis of the structural data obtained by the Rietveld refinements , the anisotropic contraction can be rationalised as follows .
The phase	super ion properties	The phase , leads to the appearance of super ion properties .
compositions	solid state reaction	All compositions were synthesized via conventional solid state reaction .
dried	110 <nUm>	Afterwards , these mixtures were dried first at 110 <nUm> for two hours and then at 500 <nUm> for two hours .
fired	750	The mixture was fired at 400 for 6h and at 750 for 48h with intermediate grindings .
fired	400	The mixture was fired at 400 for 6h and at 750 for 48h with intermediate grindings .
dried	90	The mixtures obtained were dried at 90 and 270 <nUm> and heat treated at 600 and 900 <nUm> for 24 h .
dried	90	The reaction mixtures were dried at 90 <nUm> and heattreated with free access of air in porcelain or plat inum crucibles at 200 , 600 , 800 - 850 , and 950 <nUm> for at least 24 h in each stage .
heatings	1050 <nUm>	Two successive heatings at 1050 <nUm> - one for 5 hours followed by grinding and one another for 15 hours - were necessary to obtain pure materials .
Heating an alkali NZP material	c dimension	Heating an alkali NZP material caused the c dimension to increase and the a dimension to decrease .
cooled down	105 K	The sample was first cooled down to 105 K under an applied field of 13.5 kOe , and then the measurements were performed when warming the sample up to 303 K under the same magnetic field .
annealing	1470 <nUm>	By direct crystallization from powders by annealing at 1470 <nUm> .
annealing	crystallization	Indeed glasses are stable at low temperature , and annealing at high temperature induces their crystallization .
bond compression	bondangle bending	Hazen and Finger17 described bond compression and bondangle bending as two important compression mechanisms in ceramic type materials .
pressed	200 Mpa	Fine powder samples were pressed under a pressure of 200 Mpa and formed into pellets of 13 mm diameter , and sintered at 1000 <nUm> for 6 h .
cation conducting materials	sensors	The preparation of well sintered ceramics is indispensable for applying these cation conducting materials to sensors , solid cell type electrodes , and other electric devices .
cation conducting materials	solid cell type electrodes	The preparation of well sintered ceramics is indispensable for applying these cation conducting materials to sensors , solid cell type electrodes , and other electric devices .
phosphates	X-ray diffraction	The samples of phosphates obtained were investigated by X-ray diffraction ( including high - temperature diffraction ) and IR spectroscopy .
phosphates	NZP type	X-ray powder diffraction shows that the phosphates belong to the NZP type .
Crystalchemical analysis	phosphates	Crystalchemical analysis and comparison with other phosphates show their structural relations to the NASICON ionic conductor .
Sodium zirconium phosphate ( NZP )	potential material for immobilization of nuclear effluents	Sodium zirconium phosphate ( NZP ) is a potential material for immobilization of nuclear effluents .
NZP	pressure	NZP becomes more compressible with increasing pressure over a limited range of pressures , 5 - 7.5 GPa .
compounds	crystalline powders	The compounds synthesized were crystalline powders .
Single crystals of NASICON	flux method	Single crystals of NASICON were grown in a platinum crucible by the flux method .
phosphates	1173 to 1423 <nUm>	These phosphates crystallize within the temperature range from 1173 to 1423 <nUm> .
hydrothermal method	powder materials	The hydrothermal method is verysuitable for preparing e powder materials , and foreasily preparing a wide range of compounds of various chemical species , especially in solid solution .
Nasicon type materials	thermal expansion ceramics	Nasicon type materials have been extensively studied in context of various lds of solid state chemistry : solid electrolytes , electrode materials , low thermal expansion ceramics , etc .
Nasicon type materials	solid electrolytes	Nasicon type materials have been extensively studied in context of various lds of solid state chemistry : solid electrolytes , electrode materials , low thermal expansion ceramics , etc .
EDA	microinhomogeneity	EDA investigations reveal the microinhomogeneity of the single crystal used for structural studies .
single crystal	X-ray structure determination	Its stoichiometry was not known until a complete single crystal X-ray structure determination .
metaphosphate	orthophosphate	Normally , a metaphosphate decomposes to orthophosphate above about 1000 C ( 3 ) .
NASICON structured materials	all-solid-state ion batteries	NASICON structured materials also represent a class of solid electrolytes , which are widely employed in all-solid-state ion batteries , all-solid-state air batteries , and hybrid batteries .
NASICON structured materials	all-solid-state air batteries	NASICON structured materials also represent a class of solid electrolytes , which are widely employed in all-solid-state ion batteries , all-solid-state air batteries , and hybrid batteries .
three dimensional ionic conductors exchange alkali ions with a molten salt bath	concaltration	Characteristically , three dimensional ionic conductors exchange alkali ions with a molten salt bath , the chemical concaltration gradient acting as the driving force .
NVP	anode	NVP has also been widely studied as the anode for NIBs , particularly in symmetric batteries , where both the anode and the cathode are NVP .
Single crystal	monochromated MoK radiation	Single crystal work was performed on a STOE AED II diffractometer using monochromated MoK radiation .
single crystals	resistivity	Unfortunately , single crystals suitable for resistivity measurements are not available until yet .
monophosphates	flux method	Crystals from two new monophosphates have been prepared using a flux method .
Solid solution	6 : 4	Solid solution type materials were considered to be formed below the 6 : 4
crystalline samples	Argon ion laser	The crystalline samples were excited with the 514.5 nm line of an Argon ion laser ( Coherent model Innova 300 ) .
Rietveld method	polycrystalline materials	Nevertheless , the Rietveld method is a unique method to study the structural aspects of the powder and polycrystalline materials .
black crystal	X-ray diffraction study	A black crystal of 0.075x0.072x0.036 mm was selected for the X-ray diffraction study .
temperature	homogeneous samples	The variation of temperature and duration of heat treatment do not lead to homogeneous samples .
amorphous material	nonstoichiometry	However , it is possible that the presence of glassy or amorphous material may account for the nonstoichiometry .
NASICON synthesis	path	This point requires further investigation but indicates that NASICON synthesis is path dependent .
material	host ceramic	In addition , this material has been extensively studied for use as a host ceramic for high level nuclear waste immobilization .
XRD	phase formation	XRD , FTIR , TG - DTA and SEM / TEM techniques confirm the phase formation of the material .
FTIR	phase formation	XRD , FTIR , TG - DTA and SEM / TEM techniques confirm the phase formation of the material .
X-ray diffraction ( XRD )	lithium - storage mechanism	X-ray diffraction ( XRD ) results reveal the complex lithium - storage mechanism .
UV - vis spectroscopy	ionic nature of conducting species	UV - vis spectroscopy and dc polarization techniques are utilized to confirm the ionic nature of conducting species .
Ionic conductivity	complex impedance method	Ionic conductivity measurements were performed on the samples in the form of sintered pellets by the complex impedance method ( 16 ) .
polynomial expression	least squares	Then the dependence of a and c with the temperature , a = f(t) and c = f(t) , was fitted to a polynomial expression by least squares .
room temperature	diffuse intensity	At room temperature no diffuse intensity was observed .
title compound	hydrothermal conditions	The title compound was synthesized under hydrothermal conditions .
high temperature	disorder effects	Firstly , at high temperature no static disorder effects were found .
dried	200 <nUm>	All chemicals were dried for 48 h at 200 <nUm> prior to use .
samples	line of an argon ion laser	The samples were excited with the 514.5 nm line of an argon ion laser ( Coherent model Innova 300 ) .
tempering	11000 <nUm>	Good crystals could , however , be obtained after tempering in platinum crucible for several weeks at 11000 <nUm> .
Good crystals	tempering	Good crystals could , however , be obtained after tempering in platinum crucible for several weeks at 11000 <nUm> .
av	temperature	It should be noted that av decreases slightly with temperature and the value given represents an average over the temperature range 26-400 <nUm> .
base pressure	microscope	The base pressure within the microscope was about 10 -6 torr .
base pressure	10 -6 torr	The base pressure within the microscope was about 10 -6 torr .
disorder	z and y phases	This parallelism between both types of disorder then provides an explanation for the existence of the z and y phases , which in some way appear to be stabilized high temperature modifications .
Silicon powder	internal standard	Silicon powder ( NBS SRM 640 , a 5.43088 ) was used as an internal standard .
experimental material	x-ray structural studies	All the experimental material was obtained on a auto - mated system for x-ray structural studies .
TG DTA	weight loss	The thermal study by TG DTA shows no weight loss between room temperature and 900 <nUm> for all compositions .
the dependence of a and c with the temperature	a = f(t)	Then the dependence of a and c with the temperature , a = f(t) and c = f(t) , was fitted to a polynomial expression by least squares .
the dependence of a and c with the temperature	polynomial expression	Then the dependence of a and c with the temperature , a = f(t) and c = f(t) , was fitted to a polynomial expression by least squares .
x-ray diffraction	monochromatic radiation	The x-ray diffraction was carried out by powder method using monochromatic radiation .
x-ray diffraction profiles	Rietveld method	After that , the x-ray diffraction profiles of some compositions were deconvoluted following the Rietveld method .
Ag-O distance	color of the silver oxide	As the Ag-O distance shortens , the color of the silver oxide changes from white to yellow to orange to brown to black .
Ceramic processing of Na3Zr2Si9P012	1200 <nUm>	Ceramic processing of Na3Zr2Si9P012 can be achieved at around 1200 <nUm> , substantially below the 1500 <nUm> needed for p alumina .
the bottleneck to M+ - ion transport	hexagon with a shortest Na-O contact of 2.475 R	In Na3Zr2Si9P012 the bottleneck to M+ - ion transport is a hexagon with a shortest Na-O contact of 2.475 R ; in alumina it is a rectangle between sites 2b and 2d of P63 / mmc with a Na-O contact of 2 .
Ag ions	Ag-O bonds	Ag3Zr4Si2P012 , on the other is light yellow , indicating that at least some of the Ag ions have an appreciable covalent contribution to some Ag-O bonds .
2b position	O - ions	The 2b position itself is a midpoint between two O - ions separated by 4 .
skeleton structure consisting	three dimensional nervork	The system Nal+xZr2SixP3xo12 has a skeleton structure consisting of a rigid , three dimensional nervork stabilized by electrons from mobile alkali ions in a three dimensionally linked interstitial space .
alumina	anisotropic thermal expansion	Whereas alumina has an anisotropic thermal expansion , pseudocubic Na3Zr2Si2P012 may have a nearly isotropic thermal expansion , thus minimizing thermally ilXh-1ced stresses at grain boundaries of a ceramic membrane .
transport properties	Na3Zr2Si2P012	For instance , the transport properties of Na3Zr2Si2P012 , a composition called NASICON ( sodium super ionic conductor ) , are clearly equivalent to those of alumina .
Na3(1+x) Yb(2-x) (PO4)3	sodium carbonate	Na3(1+x) Yb(2-x) (PO4)3 has been prepared from a stoichiometric mixture of sodium carbonate , diammonium hydrogenophosphate (NH4)2PO4H and Yb203 oxide according to the reaction .
Na3(1+x) Yb(2-x) (PO4)3	(NH4)2PO4H	Na3(1+x) Yb(2-x) (PO4)3 has been prepared from a stoichiometric mixture of sodium carbonate , diammonium hydrogenophosphate (NH4)2PO4H and Yb203 oxide according to the reaction .
heated	450 <nUm>	This mixture has been heated slowly in a platinum crucible up to 450 <nUm> under a nitrogen flow in order to bring about a progressive decomposition of (NH4)2PO4H .
preheated	170 <nUm>	The mixtures were preheated at 170 <nUm> for 4 hours to decompose the NHaHoPO4 , at 900 <nUm> for 4 hours to decompose the Na2CO3 , and overnight at 1200 <nUm> to transform any metaphosphate to orthophosphate .
PO4 tetrahedra	three dimensional skeleton	The PO4 tetrahedra and the Yb octahedra form a three dimensional skeleton in which the remaining sodium atoms are inserted .
sodium atoms	distorted octahedra	The sites of the sodium atoms are in the strongly distorted octahedra formed by the triangular faces of two Zr06 octahedra stacked on top of each other as illustrated in Fig.2 .
distorted octahedra	Zr06 octahedra	The sites of the sodium atoms are in the strongly distorted octahedra formed by the triangular faces of two Zr06 octahedra stacked on top of each other as illustrated in Fig.2 .
anisotropy	thermal vibrations	The anisotropy of the thermal vibrations of sodium atoms in NaSn2(PO4) 3 at room temperature is described by two different flattened ellipsoids .
sodium atoms	vibrating anisotropically	All the sodium atoms are vibrating anisotropically with very large temperature factors .
vibrating anisotropically	temperature factors	All the sodium atoms are vibrating anisotropically with very large temperature factors .
energy of hybridization	Ag+ ion	Because the energy of hybridization at a Ag+ ion is comparable to the increased covalent - bond energy made possible in oxides by hybridization , the Ag-O bond length may vary over quite a range from compound to compmmd .
energy of hybridization	covalent - bond energy	Because the energy of hybridization at a Ag+ ion is comparable to the increased covalent - bond energy made possible in oxides by hybridization , the Ag-O bond length may vary over quite a range from compound to compmmd .
NASICON	Na conductivity	At 3000 <nUm> NASICON has a high Na conductivity of roughly 2 x 10 (ohmcm)-1 in the compositional range .
shift	Coulombic potential energy	The shift corresponding to a decrease of the Coulombic potential energy .
heated	600 <nUm>	The glycerol paste was gradually heated initially at 600 <nUm> for 4 h in a crucible .
heated	250 <nUm>	The autoclave was heated in an electric furnace for 5 h at a temperature of 250 <nUm> .
heated	T = 13149K	After mixing , these products were heated up to T = 13149K and then cooled down to 1069K with a rate of 10.80 / h .
heated	200 <nUm>	The resulting mixture was transferned to a platinum crucible and heated for 30 min at 200 <nUm> .
heated	1373K	This sample was then heated up to 1373K for 3 days and quenched at room temperature .
heated	1200 <nUm>	In view of the results of this study some of the samples were heated at 1200 <nUm> for 16 h .
cooled	room temperature	After being cooled to room temperature the materials formed were reground in a mortar with a pestle to ensure breaking of any aggregates and heated to 1100 <nUm> , where they were held for 16 hours .
heated	200 <nUm>	The mixture was homogenized and heated to 200 <nUm> , in order to decompose the ammonium phosphate , and then , calcined in two steps of 800 <nUm> / 12 hours and 1100 <nUm> / 12 hours separated by a grinding .
heated	1000 <nUm>	Part of this sample was heated at 1000 <nUm> to determine the small weight loss due to hydration residual water .
heated	300 <nUm>	The resulting white suspension was centrifuged , washed thoroughly with water , and heated at 300 <nUm> for 24 h .
heated	725 <nUm>	The pellets were heated at 725 <nUm> for 24 h .
heated	600 <nUm>	After sealing , the tube was heated to 600 <nUm> at 3000 atm external pressure , held for 24 hr and cooled slowly to RT .
heated	900<nUm> for 4 hr	The tube was slowly heated to 900<nUm> for 4 hr and again at 1150 - 1200<nUm> for 20 hr .
microcrystalline powder	powdered oxides	Whereas they grew crystals by long thermal annealing of sol gel ceramics below the melting temperature , we prepared our microcrystalline powder by heating a mixture of powdered oxides at ca. 1050 <nUm> over a few days .
heating	1050 <nUm>	Whereas they grew crystals by long thermal annealing of sol gel ceramics below the melting temperature , we prepared our microcrystalline powder by heating a mixture of powdered oxides at ca. 1050 <nUm> over a few days .
heating	750 <nUm>	Very long heating ( more than 60 h ) at 750 <nUm> also results in partial decomposition .
heating	partial decomposition	Very long heating ( more than 60 h ) at 750 <nUm> also results in partial decomposition .
heating	1200 <nUm>	Diameter disks by pressing at 12,000 psi , heating for 4 hr at 1200 <nUm> and quenching in air .
sintered	1000 <nUm>	These hydrothermally prepared e crystal line powders were well sintered at 1000 <nUm> for 6 h .
hydrothermally prepared	e crystal line powders	These hydrothermally prepared e crystal line powders were well sintered at 1000 <nUm> for 6 h .
structural changes	sintering	This sample was prepared at 1050 <nUm> and sintered at the same temperature so as to minimize any structural changes caused by sintering .
